Yb2Fe3O7 is Aluminum carbonitride-derived structured and crystallizes in the hexagonal P63/mmc space group. Yb3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted YbO6 octahedra that share corners with three equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids, corners with three equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids, and edges with six equivalent YbO6 octahedra. There are three shorter (2.29 Å) and three longer (2.34 Å) Yb–O bond lengths. Fe2+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form FeO5 trigonal bipyramids that share corners with six equivalent YbO6 octahedra and corners with six equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 62°. There are two shorter (1.80 Å) and three longer (2.02 Å) Fe–O bond lengths. Fe3+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form distorted FeO5 trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three equivalent YbO6 octahedra, corners with six equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids, and edges with three equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 60°. There are a spread of Fe–O bond distances ranging from 1.81–2.17 Å. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent Fe2+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to three equivalent Yb3+ and one Fe2+ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OYb3Fe tetrahedra. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to three equivalent Yb3+ and one Fe3+ atom to form distorted OYb3Fe tetrahedra that share corners with nine OYb3Fe tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent OFe4 trigonal pyramids, and edges with three equivalent OYb3Fe tetrahedra. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Fe3+ atoms to form distorted OFe4 trigonal pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OYb3Fe tetrahedra, corners with six equivalent OFe4 trigonal pyramids, and edges with three equivalent OFe4 trigonal pyramids.
Crystals of Zn(NO3)2 · 2H2O were prepared by evaporation of ZnO solutions in HNO3 (fuming). The crystals are monoclinic with a = 5.754 ± 0.006, b = 5.978 ± 0.005, c = 8.557 ± 0.005, β = 91°2′ ± 20′ and Z = 2 formula units per unit cell. The space group is P21/c–C2h5. The crystal has been refined by least-squares calculations to a final R value of 9.3 %. Hydrogen atoms were located by difference syntheses. The zinc atoms are surrounded by a distorted octahedron composed of four oxygen atoms belonging to the nitrate ions and of two oxygen atoms belonging to two water molecules. The zinc-oxygen distances have values between 2.03 and 2.22 Å, the N–O distances are 1.22, 1.23 and 1.24 Å. Zinc nitrate dihydrate has a layer structure. The layers are parallel to (100) and are linked together by hydrogen bonds (2.93 Å). Each H2O molecule forms two hydrogen bonds with oxygen atoms of the nitrate groups (2.84, 2.93 Å).
YbFe2O4 is Aluminum carbonitride-like structured and crystallizes in the trigonal R̅3m space group. Yb2+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form YbO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids and edges with six equivalent YbO6 octahedra. All Yb–O bond lengths are 2.32 Å. Fe3+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form distorted FeO5 trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three equivalent YbO6 octahedra, corners with six equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids, and edges with three equivalent FeO5 trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 60°. There are a spread of Fe–O bond distances ranging from 1.82–2.20 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Fe3+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OFe4 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to three equivalent Yb2+ and one Fe3+ atom to form distorted OYb3Fe tetrahedra that share corners with thirteen OFe4 tetrahedra and edges with three equivalent OYb3Fe tetrahedra.
We report a complete characterization of the crystal structure between 400 and 80 K for RFe2O4 (R = Rm, Yb, and Lu) compounds using high resolution x-ray synchrotron powder diffraction. The three samples have a hexagonal structure (space group R3m) characterized by a sequence of double layers of mixed valence iron and oxygen atoms forming two-dimensional triangular layers separated by a single R-O layer along the c axis. This structure is stable down to 80 K for TmFe2O4 and YbFe2O4 though a sudden expansion in the c axis is observed at around 300 K coupled to a variation in the electrical properties. However, LuFe2O4 exhibits two structural transitions upon cooling. The splitting of some reflections and the occurrence of superstructure peaks below 320 K reveal a structural phase transition. The unit cell is monoclinic (space group C2/m), and there are four nonequivalent Fe sites with a maximum charge disproportionation of 0.5 e. The hexagonal to monoclinic transition is characterized by a sudden expansion of the c axis on cooling, and it seems to be driven by the condensation of Y_2 modes. At lower temperatures (~170 K) additional splitting of several peaks indicate that the unit cell is no longer monoclinic but triclinic (space group P1). This transition is characterized by a contraction of the monoclinic ab plane, while the c axis remains almost unchanged. There are six nonequivalent Fe sites in the triclinic cell, and the charge disproportionation magnitude is little affected. 
Crystals of Zn(NO3)2 · 2H2O were prepared by evaporation of ZnO solutions in HNO3 (fuming). The crystals are monoclinic with a = 5.754 ± 0.006, b = 5.978 ± 0.005, c = 8.557 ± 0.005, β = 91°2′ ± 20′ and Z = 2 formula units per unit cell. The space group is P21/c–C2h5. The crystal has been refined by least-squares calculations to a final R value of 9.3 %. Hydrogen atoms were located by difference syntheses. The zinc atoms are surrounded by a distorted octahedron composed of four oxygen atoms belonging to the nitrate ions and of two oxygen atoms belonging to two water molecules. The zinc-oxygen distances have values between 2.03 and 2.22 Å, the N–O distances are 1.22, 1.23 and 1.24 Å. Zinc nitrate dihydrate has a layer structure. The layers are parallel to (100) and are linked together by hydrogen bonds (2.93 Å). Each H2O molecule forms two hydrogen bonds with oxygen atoms of the nitrate groups (2.84, 2.93 Å).
YbFeO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Yb3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Yb–O bond distances ranging from 2.29–2.55 Å. Fe3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 24–26°. There are a spread of Fe–O bond distances ranging from 1.88–1.90 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Yb3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Yb3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms.
Pure-phased orthorhombic RMnFeO(R = Tb, Dy, and Ho) were successfully synthesized via the low-temperature hydrothermal technique. The nucleation and crystal growth of RMnFeO(R = Tb, Dy, and Ho) were influenced mainly by medium alkalinity, reaction temperature and time. All the three samples are of orthorhombic structure with +3 valences of Mn and Fe. They present morphologies of spheres that are assembled by smaller tabular crystals. Spin reorientation transitions were observed in RMnFeO(R = Tb, Dy, and Ho), and magnetization reversal was observed in TbFeMnO. The spin reorientation temperatures show a linear relation with the magnetic field intensity, and the spin reorientation and magnetization reversal disappear when the applied field is big enough. Antiferromagnetic transition of Rwas observed in TbFeMnOand DyFeMnOat lower temperatures. All the three samples show the characteristics of spiral magnetic ordering at 2 K and show residual magnetism at both 2 K and 300 K.
We report the low field spin switching and spin reorientation transition in rare earth orthoferrite PrFeO3 single crystal grown by optical floating zone method. Applied magnetic fields can regulate the spin switching in a quite wide range of temperatures. The effective magnetic moments of Fe3+ and Pr3+ sublattices undergo parallel to antiparallel configurations in field-cooled-cooling processes, which produce an abrupt drop in magnetization at low temperatures. The reverse spin switching show a magnetization recovering jump at a rather higher temperature in the field-cooled-warming regime, even above 300 K under very low fields. These intriguing magnetic phase transitions are due to the intrinsic 3d-4f electron interactions between Fe3+ and R3+ sublattices, which dominate the interesting magnetic behaviors in RFeO3. In particular, PrFeO3 shows a great sensitivity to weak field even at room temperature, which makes it a controllable candidate for potential application in spintronic devices by using very low field. Finally, we summarize the spin configuration diagram of the RFeO3 family. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 
Yb3Fe5O12 crystallizes in the cubic Ia̅3d space group. Yb3+ is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.37 Å) and four longer (2.51 Å) Yb–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Fe3+ sites. In the first Fe3+ site, Fe3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO6 octahedra. All Fe–O bond lengths are 1.98 Å. In the second Fe3+ site, Fe3+ is bonded to four equivalent O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO4 tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 51°. All Fe–O bond lengths are 1.86 Å. O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Yb3+ and two Fe3+ atoms.
Tb‚āāTi‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the monoclinic P2‚āĀ space group. There are four inequivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.61 √Ö. In the second Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.25‚Äď2.45 √Ö. In the third Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.22‚Äď2.40 √Ö. In the fourth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.25‚Äď2.68 √Ö. There are four inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 30‚Äď49¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.78‚Äď2.24 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 26‚Äď49¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.82‚Äď2.33 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 26‚Äď45¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.83‚Äď2.26 √Ö. In the fourth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 30‚Äď45¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.86‚Äď2.17 √Ö. There are fourteen inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the fourteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra that share corners with four OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra.
Tb‚āāTiO‚āÖ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. There are two inequivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āá hexagonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, a cornercorner with one TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramid, edges with four equivalent TbO‚āá hexagonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.36 √Ö. In the second Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent TbO‚āá hexagonal pyramids, corners with three equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, edges with three equivalent TbO‚āá hexagonal pyramids, edges with two equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.28‚Äď2.38 √Ö. Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids that share a cornercorner with one TbO‚āá hexagonal pyramid, corners with three equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent TbO‚āá hexagonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.78‚Äď1.96 √Ö. There are five inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form distorted OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra that share corners with nine OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and edges with five OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with fourteen OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and edges with four OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra that share corners with six OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and edges with five OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra that share corners with nine OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and edges with four OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra.
The crystal structures of seven samples of orthorhombic (Pnma) Ln2TiO5 compounds with Ln=La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd, Tb and Dy were refined by Rietveld analysis of synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction (S-XRD) data. With increasing size of the lanthanide cation, the lattice parameters increase systematically: c by only ~1.5% whereas both a and b by ~6% from Dy2TiO5 to La2TiO5.
The mean Ti–O bond length only increases by ~1% with increasing radius of the Ln cation from Gd to La, primarily due to expansion of the pair of Ti–O3 bonds to opposite corners of the Ti–O5 square based pyramid polyhedra. For Dy2TiO5 and Tb2TiO5, a significant variation in Ti–O1 and Ti–O4 bond lengths results in an increased deformation of the Ti–O5 base.
The particular configuration consists of large rhombic shaped tunnels and smaller triangular tunnels along the b axis, which have implications for defect formation and migration caused by radiation damage or the ionic conductivity.
Tb‚āāTi‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the tetragonal P4_12_12 space group. Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with five equivalent TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra, edges with five equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, and an edgeedge with one TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.28‚Äď2.54 √Ö. Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with five equivalent TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, a cornercorner with one TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra, and an edgeedge with one TbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.81‚Äď1.86 √Ö. There are four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
Tb2Ti2O7 crystallizes in the cubic Fd̅3m space group. Tb3+ is bonded to eight O2- atoms to form distorted TbO8 hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with six equivalent TbO8 hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are two shorter (2.19 Å) and six longer (2.49 Å) Tb–O bond lengths. Ti4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and edges with six equivalent TbO8 hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 48°. All Ti–O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Tb3+ atoms to form corner-sharing OTb4 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.
We have studied by x-ray synchrotron diffraction under high pressure five pyrochlore compounds: Tb2Ti2O7 (up to 42 GPa), Tb2Sn2O7 and Tb2Mo2O7 (up to 35 GPa), Gd2Mo2O7 and (Tb0.8La0.2)2Mo2O7 (up to 10GPa). At ambient pressure all compounds crystallize in the cubic F d(3) over bar m symmetry group. This structure is stable for all compounds in the investigated pressure range. All three compounds having Mo as transition metal are described by the same equation of state, with the same bulk modulus B-0 = 149. The bulk modulus is smaller in the Mo pyrochlores than in the Ti and Sn ones, in contrast with a priori expectations.
Although materials that exhibit nearest-neighbor-only antiferromagnetic interactions and geometrical frustration theoretically should not magnetically order in the absence of disorder, few such systems have been observed experimentally. One such system appears to be the pyrochlore Tb2Ti2O7. However, previous structural studies indicated that Tb2Ti2O7 is an imperfect pyrochlore. To clarify the situation, we performed neutron powder-diffraction (NPD) and x-ray absorption fine-structure (XAFS) measurements on samples that were prepared identically to those that show no magnetic order. The NPD measurements show that the long-range structure of Tb2Ti2O7 is well ordered with no structural transitions between 4.5 and 600 K. In particular, mean-squared displacements u~2' s for each site follow a Debye model with no offsets. No evidence for Tb/Ti site interchange was observed within an upper limit of 2%. Likewise, no excess or deficiency in the oxygen stoichiometry was observed, within an upper limit of 2% of the nominal pyrochlore value. Tb L_(Ⅲ)- and Ti K-edge XAFS measurements from 20 K to 300 K similarly indicate a well-ordered local structure. Other aspects of the structure are considered. We conclude that Tb2Ti2O7 has, within experimental error, an ideal, disorder-free pyrochlore lattice, thereby allowing the system to remain in a dynamic, frustrated spin state to the lowest observed temperatures.
Tb2TiO5 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. There are two inequivalent Tb3+ sites. In the first Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted TbO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TbO6 octahedra, corners with four equivalent TiO6 octahedra, and edges with six TbO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 60–65°. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.31–2.36 Å. In the second Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TbO6 octahedra that share corners with four TbO6 octahedra, corners with four equivalent TiO6 octahedra, and edges with four TbO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51–65°. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.22–2.38 Å. Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra, corners with eight TbO6 octahedra, and edges with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 35–65°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.86–2.47 Å. There are five inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Tb3+ atoms to form OTb4 tetrahedra that share corners with ten OTb4 tetrahedra and edges with three OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to three equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three equivalent Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom.
TbTiO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Tb3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.26–2.74 Å. Ti3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 35–39°. All Ti–O bond lengths are 2.05 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OTb2Ti2 trigonal pyramids. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms.
Tb5Ti5O17 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmn21 space group. There are five inequivalent Tb3+ sites. In the first Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.26–2.84 Å. In the second Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.32–2.95 Å. In the third Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.30–2.53 Å. In the fourth Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.23–2.80 Å. In the fifth Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.35–2.97 Å. Ti3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 12–37°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.88–2.19 Å. There are four inequivalent Ti4+ sites. In the first Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra and corners with four TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 12–37°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.82–2.23 Å. In the second Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–39°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.88–2.08 Å. In the third Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 11–39°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.89–2.15 Å. In the fourth Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 11–30°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.91–2.09 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OTb2Ti2 tetrahedra. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the sixth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb3+ and one Ti3+ atom. In the seventh O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti3+ atom to form corner-sharing OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the eighth O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Tb3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OTb2Ti2 tetrahedra. In the ninth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the tenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the eleventh O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the twelfth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form corner-sharing OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the thirteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom. In the fourteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms. In the fifteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the sixteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to two Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the seventeenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.
Tb‚āĀ‚āĄTi‚āĀ‚āÄO‚āĄ‚āĀ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. There are eleven inequivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.21‚Äď2.89 √Ö. In the second Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with two equivalent TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.21‚Äď2.65 √Ö. In the third Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with four TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.22‚Äď2.74 √Ö. In the fourth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids that share an edgeedge with one TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramid and edges with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.19‚Äď2.67 √Ö. In the fifth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with three TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.20‚Äď2.59 √Ö. In the sixth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.24‚Äď2.65 √Ö. In the seventh Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.14‚Äď2.40 √Ö. In the eighth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.23‚Äď2.76 √Ö. In the ninth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TbO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with five TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď77¬į. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.23‚Äď2.33 √Ö. In the tenth Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TbO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TbO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with five TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44‚Äď79¬į. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.21‚Äď2.32 √Ö. In the eleventh Tb¬≥‚Āļ site, Tb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Tb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.12‚Äď2.40 √Ö. There are seven inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with five TiO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 29‚Äď79¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.93‚Äď2.11 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with five TiO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with four TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 32‚Äď75¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.95‚Äď2.02 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 43‚Äď50¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.93‚Äď2.04 √Ö. In the fourth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with five TiO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 30‚Äď73¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.86‚Äď2.13 √Ö. In the fifth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four equivalent TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 48‚Äď55¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.94‚Äď2.07 √Ö. In the sixth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44‚Äď49¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď2.02 √Ö. In the seventh Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three TbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three TiO‚āÜ octahedra, and an edgeedge with one TbO‚āą hexagonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 30‚Äď77¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.90‚Äď2.22 √Ö. There are twenty-nine inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form corner-sharing OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with four OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra and edges with three OTb‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with four OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the fourteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OTb‚āāTi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the fifteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the seventeenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra that share corners with eight OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTb‚āāTi‚āā trigonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the eighteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra that share corners with five OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the nineteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twentieth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twenty-first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OTb‚āāTi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the twenty-second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra and a cornercorner with one OTb‚āāTi‚āā trigonal pyramid. In the twenty-third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the twenty-fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twenty-fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twenty-sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form corner-sharing OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the twenty-seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the twenty-eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Tb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with nine OTb‚āÉTi tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTb‚āāTi‚āā trigonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one OTb‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the twenty-ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Tb¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
We present an algorithm for generating all derivative superstructures of a nonprimitive parent lattice. The algorithm has immediate application in important materials design problems such as modeling hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) alloys. Extending the work of Hart and Forcade [Phys. Rev. B 77, 224115 (2008)] (which applies only to Bravais lattices), this approach applies to arbitrary multilattices. The algorithm enumerates superlattices and atomic configurations using permutation groups rather than direct geometric comparisons. The key concept is to use the quotient group associated with each superlattice to determine all unique atomic configurations. The algorithm is very efficient; the run time scales linearly with the number of unique structures found. We demonstrate the algorithm in the important case of hcp-derived superstructures. In the list of enumerated hexagonal-close-packed derivative superstructures, we predict several as-yet-unobserved structures as likely candidates for new intermetallic prototypes.
Tb10Ti6O27 crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. There are eight inequivalent Tb3+ sites. In the first Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.24–2.70 Å. In the second Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.26–2.38 Å. In the third Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.14–2.43 Å. In the fourth Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.24–2.65 Å. In the fifth Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra, a cornercorner with one TbO7 pentagonal bipyramid, and edges with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 53°. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.23–2.59 Å. In the sixth Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra, a cornercorner with one TbO7 pentagonal bipyramid, and edges with four TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 57°. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.22–2.49 Å. In the seventh Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share a cornercorner with one TiO6 octahedra and edges with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 70°. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.20–2.41 Å. In the eighth Tb3+ site, Tb3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O2- atoms. There are a spread of Tb–O bond distances ranging from 2.15–2.39 Å. There are four inequivalent Ti4+ sites. In the first Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted TiO6 octahedra that share corners with five TiO6 octahedra, corners with two TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 27–61°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.84–2.30 Å. In the second Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with five TiO6 octahedra, a cornercorner with one TbO7 pentagonal bipyramid, and edges with two equivalent TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44–51°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.91–2.17 Å. In the third Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted TiO6 octahedra that share corners with three TiO6 octahedra and edges with two equivalent TbO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44–61°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.85–2.35 Å. In the fourth Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O2- atoms. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.87–2.49 Å. There are nineteen inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Tb3+ atoms to form distorted OTb4 tetrahedra that share corners with four OTb4 tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom. In the sixth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted OTb3Ti tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb3Ti tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTb2Ti2 trigonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one OTb4 tetrahedra. In the seventh O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the eighth O2- site, O2- is bonded to two Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OTb2Ti2 trigonal pyramids. In the ninth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form OTb3Ti tetrahedra that share corners with five OTb3Ti tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTb4 tetrahedra. In the tenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the eleventh O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted OTb3Ti tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb3Ti tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OTb2Ti2 trigonal pyramids, and an edgeedge with one OTb4 tetrahedra. In the twelfth O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Tb3+ atoms to form OTb4 tetrahedra that share corners with seven OTb4 tetrahedra and a cornercorner with one OTb2Ti2 trigonal pyramid. In the thirteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Tb3+ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OTb4 tetrahedra. In the fourteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tb3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the fifteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form corner-sharing OTb3Ti tetrahedra. In the sixteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the seventeenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tb3+ and one Ti4+ atom. In the eighteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Tb3+ atoms to form OTb4 tetrahedra that share corners with nine OTb4 tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTb2Ti2 trigonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one OTb4 tetrahedra. In the nineteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Tb3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.
We present an algorithm for generating all derivative superstructures of a nonprimitive parent lattice. The algorithm has immediate application in important materials design problems such as modeling hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) alloys. Extending the work of Hart and Forcade [Phys. Rev. B 77, 224115 (2008)] (which applies only to Bravais lattices), this approach applies to arbitrary multilattices. The algorithm enumerates superlattices and atomic configurations using permutation groups rather than direct geometric comparisons. The key concept is to use the quotient group associated with each superlattice to determine all unique atomic configurations. The algorithm is very efficient; the run time scales linearly with the number of unique structures found. We demonstrate the algorithm in the important case of hcp-derived superstructures. In the list of enumerated hexagonal-close-packed derivative superstructures, we predict several as-yet-unobserved structures as likely candidates for new intermetallic prototypes.
In this work we provide a list of 256 crystal entries in the Inorganic Crystal Structure Database that have errors, incomplete information, or are given the generic name "zeolite" when they may belong to a different family of crystals.
A simplified model of the transition from pyrochlore to fluorite in the series Ln2(Ti2xLnx)O7x/2(Ln=Tb–Lu, 0x0.67), with Ho as an example. The separate corner sharing tetrahedral lattices of cations in the pyrochlore structure develop into edge sharing tetrahedra as extra Ln is stuffed in place of Ti. The increased spin connectivity in these new materials represents a new avenue of study in the well-known rare earth titanate pyrochlores in view of geometrical magnetic frustration.
Tbв‚‚TiOв‚… crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are sixteen inequivalent TbВівЃє sites. In the first TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.24вЂ“2.74 Г…. In the second TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.14вЂ“2.54 Г…. In the third TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.24вЂ“2.73 Г…. In the fourth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted TbOв‚† octahedra that share corners with four TiOв‚† octahedra, a cornercorner with one TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramid, and an edgeedge with one TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 57вЂ“63В°. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.27вЂ“2.48 Г…. In the fifth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted TbOв‚† pentagonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one TiOв‚† octahedra and edges with two TiOв‚† octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 39В°. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.13вЂ“2.35 Г…. In the sixth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.25вЂ“2.73 Г…. In the seventh TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.29вЂ“2.74 Г…. In the eighth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.17вЂ“2.48 Г…. In the ninth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded to seven OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramids, corners with two equivalent TiOв‚„ trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one TbOв‚† octahedra, an edgeedge with one TiOв‚† octahedra, and an edgeedge with one TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.32вЂ“2.47 Г…. In the tenth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.25вЂ“2.64 Г…. In the eleventh TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.21вЂ“2.66 Г…. In the twelfth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.16вЂ“2.63 Г…. In the thirteenth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.22вЂ“2.43 Г…. In the fourteenth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.17вЂ“2.59 Г…. In the fifteenth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.24вЂ“2.96 Г…. In the sixteenth TbВівЃє site, TbВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TbвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.19вЂ“2.63 Г…. There are eight inequivalent TiвЃґвЃє sites. In the first TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to five OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramids that share a cornercorner with one TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramid and a cornercorner with one TiOв‚„ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.85вЂ“2.17 Г…. In the second TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to four OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted TiOв‚„ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramids and corners with two TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.77вЂ“1.91 Г…. In the third TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.88вЂ“2.53 Г…. In the fourth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to five OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramids that share a cornercorner with one TbOв‚† octahedra, corners with two TiOв‚† octahedra, a cornercorner with one TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramid, a cornercorner with one TiOв‚„ trigonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 33вЂ“76В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.84вЂ“2.13 Г…. In the fifth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TbOв‚† octahedra, corners with two equivalent TiOв‚† octahedra, a cornercorner with one TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramid, an edgeedge with one TbOв‚‡ pentagonal bipyramid, and an edgeedge with one TbOв‚† pentagonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 24вЂ“63В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.90вЂ“2.01 Г…. In the sixth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TbOв‚† octahedra, corners with two equivalent TiOв‚† octahedra, a cornercorner with one TiOв‚… trigonal bipyramid, and an edgeedge with one TbOв‚† pentagonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 24вЂ“63В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.87вЂ“2.32 Г…. In the seventh TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted TiOв‚† octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TbOв‚† pentagonal pyramid. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.94вЂ“2.13 Г…. In the eighth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.87вЂ“2.22 Г…. There are forty inequivalent OВІвЃ» sites. In the first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form distorted OTbв‚ѓTi trigonal pyramids that share corners with five OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the fourth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fifth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the sixth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the seventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the eighth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form distorted OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with three OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OTbв‚ѓTi trigonal pyramids, and an edgeedge with one OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the ninth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the tenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the eleventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form distorted OTbв‚„ tetrahedra that share corners with five OTbв‚„ tetrahedra, edges with two OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra, and an edgeedge with one OTbв‚ѓTi trigonal pyramid. In the twelfth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form distorted OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with six OTbв‚„ tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTbв‚ѓTi trigonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra. In the thirteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fourteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the fifteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to two TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms to form distorted OTbв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra that share corners with three OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra and edges with two OTbв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra. In the sixteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form distorted OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with six OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra and edges with two OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the seventeenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the eighteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the nineteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the twentieth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the twenty-first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the twenty-second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the twenty-third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the twenty-fourth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with four OTbв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra and edges with two OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra. In the twenty-fifth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form distorted OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with six OTbв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra and edges with two OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the twenty-sixth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the twenty-seventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the twenty-eighth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the twenty-ninth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with two OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra and edges with two OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the thirtieth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form distorted OTbв‚„ tetrahedra that share corners with eight OTbв‚„ tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTbв‚ѓTi trigonal pyramid, and edges with two OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the thirty-first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the thirty-second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four TbВівЃє atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the thirty-third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the thirty-fourth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to two TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms to form distorted OTbв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra that share corners with three OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra and edges with three OTbв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra. In the thirty-fifth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the thirty-sixth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the thirty-seventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє atoms. In the thirty-eighth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one TbВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the thirty-ninth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form OTbв‚ѓTi tetrahedra that share corners with three OTbв‚„ tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OTbв‚ѓTi trigonal pyramid, and edges with two OTbв‚„ tetrahedra. In the fortieth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three TbВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom.
SmScO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Sm3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Sm–O bond distances ranging from 2.29–2.86 Å. Sc3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing ScO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 36–39°. There are two shorter (2.09 Å) and four longer (2.12 Å) Sc–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Sm3+ and two equivalent Sc3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OSm2Sc2 trigonal pyramids. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Sm3+ and two equivalent Sc3+ atoms.
Ternary lanthanide scandates (Ln=La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd, Tb, Dy, and Ho) have been synthesized at ambient pressure. Their structure has been investigated at room temperature by Rietveld analysis of powder X-ray diffraction data. The Ln-scandates are orthorhombic perovskites, adopting space group Pbnm (# 62), a approximate to b approximate to root2a(p), c approximate to 2a(p), Z = 4. Heavy lanthanides (Er-Lu), and Y do not form perovskites at ambient conditions. Compositionally driven phase transitions were not observed. The unit-cell parameters decrease with increasing ScO6 octahedron rotation and atomic number of the Ln cation. In common with lanthanide orthoferrites, the uniform structural evolution is interrupted at the middle-heavy part of the lanthanide sequence. This is probably due to an interplay between: (i) enlargement of the ScO6 octahedra relative to BO6 in other perovskites (e.g., FeO6 in GdFeO3); (ii) reduction in size of the first coordination sphere of Ln(3+) coincident with the lanthanide contraction; (iii) coincident expansion of the second coordination sphere due to screening effects of O(1)1 on O(1)2, and entry of Sc to the lanthanide coordination sphere; (iv) complex mixing between oxygen and lanthanide lanthanide f- and scandium d-orbitals. In the series studied, Ln3+ are in eight-fold coordination (tetragonal antiprism), and are considerably displaced from the center of the LnO(8) polyhedron along [001]. Evolution of the crystallochemical characteristics through the Ln orthoscandate series is complex due to both the antipathetic distortions of A- and B-site coordination polyhedra and interaction of the orbitals of oxygen, Ln and Sc. Empirically obtained limits of Goldschmidt and observed (viii)t(o) tolerance factors for ternary LnBO3 compounds adopting the Pbnm structure are 0.795 and 0.841, respectively. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. 
Sm‚āāSc‚āāO‚āÖ is Ilmenite-like structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Ima2 space group. Sm¬≤‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.30‚Äď2.66 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Sc¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Sc¬≥‚Āļ site, Sc¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form ScO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent ScO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with two equivalent ScO‚āĄ trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 36¬į. There are a spread of Sc‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.08‚Äď2.15 √Ö. In the second Sc¬≥‚Āļ site, Sc¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form ScO‚āĄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent ScO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with two equivalent ScO‚āĄ trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 36¬į. There are a spread of Sc‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.03‚Äď2.20 √Ö. There are three inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent Sm¬≤‚Āļ and two equivalent Sc¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāSc‚āā tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OSm‚āĄSc‚āā octahedra, corners with four equivalent OSm‚āāSc‚āā tetrahedra, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āĄSc‚āā octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OSm‚āāSc‚āā tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 61‚Äď62¬į. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Sm¬≤‚Āļ and two Sc¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four equivalent Sm¬≤‚Āļ and two equivalent Sc¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āĄSc‚āā octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OSm‚āāSc‚āā tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent OSm‚āāSc‚āā tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent OSm‚āĄSc‚āā octahedra.
SmBiO4 crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/c space group. Sm3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Sm–O bond distances ranging from 2.34–2.60 Å. Bi5+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted edge-sharing BiO6 octahedra. There are a spread of Bi–O bond distances ranging from 2.05–2.30 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two equivalent Sm3+ and one Bi5+ atom. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Sm3+ and two equivalent Bi5+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OSm2Bi2 tetrahedra.
Sm2BiO2 is alpha bismuth trifluoride-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mmm space group. Sm is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Bi and four equivalent O atoms. All Sm–Bi bond lengths are 3.61 Å. All Sm–O bond lengths are 2.29 Å. Bi is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent Sm atoms. O is bonded to four equivalent Sm atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OSm4 tetrahedra.
A series of tetragonal ThCr2Si2-type compounds, R2O2Bi (R = rare earth or Y), are synthesized in which an unusual Bi2− anion forms a square net layer that is sandwiched between (R2O2)2+ fluorite layers. Two-dimensional (2D) electronic bands around the Fermi energy are predominantly composed of 6px6py orbitals in the Bi2− square net, which contains a positive hole per Bi2− ion. The decrease in the size of the square net caused by reducing the size of the R ion enhances the electrical conductivity because of the hole, resulting in a “chemical pressure”-induced metal−insulator transition.
Sm‚āÉBi‚āÖO‚āĀ‚āā is Ilmenite-like structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are six inequivalent Sm¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Sm¬≥‚Āļ site, Sm¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted SmO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď55¬į. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.33‚Äď2.43 √Ö. In the second Sm¬≥‚Āļ site, Sm¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form SmO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53‚Äď58¬į. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.35‚Äď2.40 √Ö. In the third Sm¬≥‚Āļ site, Sm¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted SmO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.33‚Äď2.45 √Ö. In the fourth Sm¬≥‚Āļ site, Sm¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form SmO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with five BiO‚āÜ octahedra, an edgeedge with one SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with five BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.36‚Äď2.38 √Ö. In the fifth Sm¬≥‚Āļ site, Sm¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form SmO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with six BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53‚Äď55¬į. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.37‚Äď2.39 √Ö. In the sixth Sm¬≥‚Āļ site, Sm¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form SmO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with five BiO‚āÜ octahedra, an edgeedge with one SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with five BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď56¬į. There are a spread of Sm‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.36‚Äď2.39 √Ö. There are ten inequivalent Bi¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.33‚Äď2.54 √Ö. In the second Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.33‚Äď2.52 √Ö. In the third Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.53 √Ö. In the fourth Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 55‚Äď56¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.53 √Ö. In the fifth Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď56¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.31‚Äď2.54 √Ö. In the sixth Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.31‚Äď2.54 √Ö. In the seventh Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď58¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.52 √Ö. In the eighth Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 55¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.53 √Ö. In the ninth Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď55¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.31‚Äď2.54 √Ö. In the tenth Bi¬≥‚Āļ site, Bi¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted BiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three SmO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with three BiO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with two SmO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with four BiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54‚Äď57¬į. There are a spread of Bi‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.33‚Äď2.52 √Ö. There are twenty-four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, and edges with three OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, and edges with three OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, edges with two OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, and edges with two OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, edges with two OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, and edges with two OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, and edges with three OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Sm¬≥‚Āļ and one Bi¬≥‚Āļ atom to form distorted OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, and edges with three OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, and edges with three OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the fourteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the fifteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the sixteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the seventeenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, and edges with three OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the eighteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Sm¬≥‚Āļ and two Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, and edges with three OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the nineteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the twentieth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the twenty-first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Sm¬≥‚Āļ and one Bi¬≥‚Āļ atom to form distorted OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āāBi‚āā tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, and edges with three OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the twenty-second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids. In the twenty-third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share a cornercorner with one OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with eleven OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the twenty-fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Sm¬≥‚Āļ and three Bi¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OSmBi‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OSm‚āÉBi tetrahedra, corners with ten OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids, and edges with four OSm‚āāBi‚āā trigonal pyramids.
Sm4Bi2O is (La,Ba)CuO4 structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mmm space group. There are two inequivalent Sm2+ sites. In the first Sm2+ site, Sm2+ is bonded in a linear geometry to four equivalent Bi3- and two equivalent O2- atoms. All Sm–Bi bond lengths are 3.38 Å. Both Sm–O bond lengths are 2.34 Å. In the second Sm2+ site, Sm2+ is bonded to five equivalent Bi3- and one O2- atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing SmBi5O octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–21°. There is one shorter (3.23 Å) and four longer (3.37 Å) Sm–Bi bond lengths. The Sm–O bond length is 3.05 Å. Bi3- is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine Sm2+ atoms. O2- is bonded to six Sm2+ atoms to form corner-sharing OSm6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted.
The structural relations of LaSb type compounds and their oxygen stuffed variants, like e.g. Eu4Sb2O(anti-K2NiF4 type), are discussed. In the course of these investigations, the crystal structures of La2Sb, Pr2Sb, Sm2Sb, Nd2Bi, and Sm4Bi2O were determined and refined from single crystal data. Band structures have been calculated in the framework of density functional theory, and the bonding properties of the individual compounds are compared on the basis of the Electron Localization Function (ELF). Based on specific geometrical parameters, the La2Sb type compounds are arranged in a structure field map. Three distinct areas arise: insulating K2NiF4 type compounds, semiconducting, oxygen stuffed variants and oxygen-free metallic compounds. La2Sb is found in the latter area, ruling out oxygen content, which is confirmed by high resolution single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The electronic structures of the compounds are related to the valence electron count. Pnictides of tri-valent metals are metallic and feature local multicenter metal-metal bonds, di-valent metals form oxygen stuffed variants. Samarium is the only element which is found in both areas of the structure field map, displaying an oxygen free and a stuffed variant.    
The thermal expansion, high-temperature electrical conductivity, and high-temperature crystal structure of the title cuprates with tetragonal T′-structure are investigated in order to evaluate their possible use as cathode materials in solid oxide fuel cells.
In this work an evaluation of Ln2CuO4 (Ln: La, Pr, Nd) cuprates is presented in terms of their possible application as cathode materials in Solid Oxide Fuel Cells working in an intermediate temperature range (600-800 ℃). The materials were synthesized by a soft chemistry EDTA-based method. Structural and microstructural characterization, measurements of transport properties and oxygen nonstoichiometry, determination of chemical stability in relation to Ce0.8Gd0.2O1.9 electrolyte, as well as mass relaxation studies for determination of oxygen diffusion coefficient D and surface exchange coefficient Kin Pr2CuO4 and measurements of electrochemical properties of electrolyte-supported cells with Pr2CuO4 cathodes were performed. Pr2CuO4 and Nd2CuO4 oxides were found to possess tetragonal 14/mmm structure, in case of La2CuO4, orthorhombic Bmab one was observed. High temperature XRD data revealed anisotropic thermal expansion of Pr2CuO4, smaller along c-axis. Based on reduction experiments performed on TG apparatus, the initial slight oxygen excess δ present in the compounds at room temperature was evaluated: La2CuO(4.03(2)). Pr2CuO(4.05(2)) and Nd2CuO(4.04(2)). Additionally, it was observed that up to 900℃ in air the oxygen content in the materials does not change considerably. Pr2CuO4 exhibits activated character of the electrical conductivity as a function of temperature, with values relatively high for cuprates, exceeding 100 S cm~(-1) in 500-800 ℃ range, as well as negative values of Seebeck coefficient from room temperature (RT) up to 800 C. Electrical conductivities of La2CuO4 and Nd2CuO4 are much lower in the temperature range of interest. Using mass relaxation technique it was possible to simultaneously evaluate D and K in 600-900 ℃ temperature range. Activation energy of D was calculated to be 0.13(2) eV. Results of chemical stability studies in relation to Co0.8Gd0.2O1.9 electrolyte revealed moderately good chemical compatibility of Pr2CuO4 oxide, while La2CuO4 and Nd2CuO4 stability proved to be insufficient. Using custom-made electrolyte-supported SOFC cells with Pr2CuO4-based cathode, it was possible to obtain power densities exceeding 0.1 W cm~(-2) at 800 ℃ and 0.25 W cm~(-2) at 900 ℃.


The structural and transport properties of the layered cuprate PrCuO have been studied in the temperature range 300–2100 K using molecular dynamics simulation. The first evidence is presented for a premelting effect in PrCuO: disordering on one of its oxygen sites and abnormally fast oxygen diffusion at temperatures above 1700 K. We have clarified the microscopic mechanism of oxygen ion transport in this material. The large oxygen diffusion coefficient ( > 10 cm/s) obtained in our simulations of the layered cuprate PrCuO suggests that it has considerable potential as a host for electrode materials with mixed ionic-electronic conductivity.


A neutron-powder-diffraction study has been carried out on Pr{sub 2}CuO{sub 4}, which has the {ital T}{prime}-type structure of the new high-{ital T}{sub {ital c}} electron superconductors. The compound orders antiferromagnetically at about 270 K. The magnetic intensities at 15 K can be equally well accounted for by a collinear magnetic structure with orthorhombic symmetry or a noncollinear structure with tetragonal symmetry. In both cases, Cu moments are coupled antiferromagnetically within the CuO{sub 2} layers, the ordered moment being 0.48{mu}{sub {ital B}} at 15 K. Rietveld refinement at 298 and 15 K shows the crystal structure is essentially unchanged; in particular, there is no detectable distortion at low temperature.
Pr1.85Am.15CuO4 has been synthesized and found to have a structure consistent with the T′-phase electron superconductors. X-ray diffraction, x-ray-absorption spectroscopy studies, and magnetic-susceptibility results are all used to conclude that Am is tetravalent in this Cu-oxide host. Despite the hole doping of the parent Pr2CuO4 compound by Am4+, magnetic measurements show that the Pr1.85Am.15CuO4 sample does not superconduct, despite the observation that a Ce-doped sample made under the same condition exhibits a diamagnetic signal at low temperatures and small applied fields. The absence of superconductivity in the Am-doped sample is discussed in terms of a magnetic model for the suppression of Tc. The presence of Am4+ in this sample precludes the formation of Am1.85Ce.15CuO4, which has been predicted to superconduct.
The R2CuO4 phases for R = Pr and Nd were prepared and found to be semiconducting as previously reported. Crystal structures of both compounds were examined by profile refinements of neutron powder diffraction data. A series of phases of the type R2xSrxCuO4 which are isostructural with R2CuO4 for x up to 0.1 were prepared and found to remain semiconducting. Chemical analysis indicates the presence of Cu III, yet these materials are not superconducting. This supports the view that R2CuO4 phases should be regarded as Mott insulators. A new series of phases possessing the tetragonal K2NiF4 structure appear in the Pr2xSrxCuO4 system for 1.0≤x1.25. The new phases are semiconducting. We also find semiconductivity and not superconductivity for La2xAxCuO4 where A is Pb or Cd. Reasons are discussed for why Ba, Sr, Ca and Na substitutions into La2CuO4 lead to superconductivity whereas the Pb and Cd substitutions do not.
Raman scattering and powder X-ray diffraction in the parent compounds of T,T'-phase and (Ca0.86Sr0.14)CuO2 were measured to examine the two-magnon ([omega]2m) and highest phonon energy ([omega]2p) dependences on Cu-O bond length (d), and to determine the structural parameters of the T'-phase. We found that both [omega]2m and [omega]2p exhibit strong power-law dependence on d, [omega]2m[is proportional to]d-4.6, and [omega]2p[is proportional to]d-6.3, in the T'-phase except for Gd2CuO4, and both energies for Gd2CuO4 deviate from the power-law relation. The strong d dependence of [omega]2p suggests that this phonon is strongly coupled with charge-transfer electronic state. The observed phonon is assigned to two-phonon scattering of the bond-stretching mode of Cu and O atoms in the basal plane. The depression of [omega]2p for Gd2CuO4 implies a structural change, such as oxygen distortion in the CuO2 plane, which influences the charge-transfer energy gap [Delta] and [omega]2m. The [Delta] values were estimated from the Madelung site potentials Vi, which were calculated based on the crystal structural parameters determined by Rietveld analysis. Cu3d-O2p transfer energy tpd, and on-site Coulomb repulsive potentials, Ud and Up, were determined using a one-dimensional Cu2O cluster model by fitting [omega]2m as a function of d. Finally, we discuss the relationship between crystal structure and carrier doping. The result of [Delta]V: (VR-VCu) dependence on d suggests that the carrier concentration is not constant in T'-phase and change in the carrier concentration influences Tc in these materials.
PrCuO2 crystallizes in the trigonal R̅3m space group. Pr3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form distorted edge-sharing PrO6 octahedra. All Pr–O bond lengths are 2.42 Å. Cu1+ is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent O2- atoms. Both Cu–O bond lengths are 1.80 Å. O2- is bonded to three equivalent Pr3+ and one Cu1+ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OPr3Cu tetrahedra.


ChemInform is a weekly Abstracting Service, delivering concise information at a glance that was extracted from about 200 leading journals. To access a ChemInform Abstract of an article which was published elsewhere, please select a "Full Text" option. The original article is trackable via the "References" option.


Cu2O reacts with La2O3, Nd2O3, Sm2O3and Eu2O3to form double oxides Cu(RE)O2with the rhombohedral NaHF2structure. The interatomic distances for CuLaO2are given. For the NaHF2-type compounds Cu1+Me3+O2(Me3+= Al, Cr, Ga, Mn, Fe, Co, Rh as well as La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu) an increase of the lattice parametera(hexagonal orientation) with increasing size of Me3+is observed, while the changes ofcare only small. Oxides Cu1+(RE)O2with (RE)3+ions smaller than Eu3+and with Y3+or In3+could not be obtained. The preparation of the corresponding silver compounds Ag1+(RE)O2was also not successful.
PrCuO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. Pr3+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form PrO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent PrO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent PrO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent CuO6 octahedra. All Pr–O bond lengths are 2.72 Å. Cu3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form CuO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent CuO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent PrO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Cu–O bond lengths are 1.92 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Pr3+ and two equivalent Cu3+ atoms.
Prв‚‚Cuв‚‚Oв‚… crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pbam space group. PrВівЃє is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of PrвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.46вЂ“3.08 Г…. CuВІвЃє is bonded to five OВІвЃ» atoms to form corner-sharing CuOв‚… square pyramids. There are a spread of CuвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.92вЂ“2.31 Г…. There are three inequivalent OВІвЃ» sites. In the first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four equivalent PrВівЃє and two equivalent CuВІвЃє atoms. In the second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four equivalent PrВівЃє and two equivalent CuВІвЃє atoms. In the third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four equivalent PrВівЃє and two equivalent CuВІвЃє atoms to form distorted edge-sharing OPrв‚„Cuв‚‚ octahedra.


A novel Pr2Cu2O5 phase has been prepared under high-pressure and high-temperature conditions (P～6 GPa and T～1673 K) in a Belt-type apparatus and characterized by X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy. The crystal structure appears to be an orthorhombic "oxygen-deficient perovskite" (M.T. Anderson, J.T. Vaughey, and K.R. Poeppelmeier, Structural similarities among oxygen-deficient perovskites, Chem. Mater. 5 (1993), pp. 151-165) isostructural with La2Cu2O5 (J.F. Bringley, B.A. Scott, S.J. La Placa, R.F. Boheme, T.M. Shaw, M.W. McElfresh, S.S. Trail, and D.E. Cox, Synthesis of the defect perovskite series LaCuO3-δ with copper valence varying from 2+ to 3+, Nature 347 (1990), pp. 263-265) and Nd2Cu2O5 (B.-H. Chen, D.Walker, E. Suard, B.A. Scott, B. Mercey, M. Hervieu, and B. Raveau, High pressure synthesis of NdCuO(3-δ) perovskites (0 ≤ δ ≤ 0.5). Inorg. Chem. 34 (1995), pp. 2077-2083).
Pr2CuO4 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Cmce space group. Pr3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Pr–O bond distances ranging from 2.32–2.73 Å. Cu2+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing CuO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 12°. There are four shorter (1.93 Å) and two longer (2.44 Å) Cu–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Pr3+ and one Cu2+ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OPr4Cu square pyramids. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Pr3+ and two equivalent Cu2+ atoms.


We have investigated the structural properties of LaNdCuO4 and Pr2CuO4 under hydrostatic pressure up to 37 GPa at ambient temperature by high-resolution angle-dispersive X-ray powder diffraction. Upon increasing pressure a structural transformation into the T-structure (I4/mmm, K2NiF4-type) was observed at PT=11.4 GPa and PT=15.1 GPa, respectively. Full-profile refinements of the diffraction data give evidence for a gradual distortion of the T-structure into the orthorhombic O-phase (Cmca, distorted K2NiF4-type) during pressure release in a certain pressure interval. At low pressures the initial T′-structure (I4/mmm, Nd2CuO4-type) is eventually recovered again. The axis and volume compressibilities are well described by a simple model that considers the linear compressibilities of different polyhedra building the unit-cell. The occurrence of the O-phase can be understood within the tolerance factor t versus PT phase diagram.
Pr2CuO4 is (La,Ba)CuO4 structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mmm space group. Pr3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of Pr–O bond distances ranging from 2.33–2.75 Å. Cu2+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing CuO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (1.89 Å) and two longer (2.41 Å) Cu–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Pr3+ and two equivalent Cu2+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner, face, and edge-sharing OPr4Cu2 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five equivalent Pr3+ and one Cu2+ atom.

LaYO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. La3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.37–2.81 Å. Y3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing YO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 40–44°. There are a spread of Y–O bond distances ranging from 2.26–2.32 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Y3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Y3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLa2Y2 trigonal pyramids.
In this article, we report the growth of single crystals of the inter-lanthanide series LaO (=Y, Ho–Lu) using molten hydroxide fluxes. Inter-lanthanide oxides, 3 and =lanthanides) typically crystallize in the -, - or or in the O perovskite structure types, depending on the relative sizes of the lanthanide cations involved. The inter-lanthanide oxides, LaO (=Y, Ho–Lu), reported herein were determined to crystallize in the orthorhombic () perovskite-type structure. A discussion on the effect of cation radii on the resultant crystal structure for LaO (=Y, Ho–Lu) and other reported inter-lanthanide oxides is presented herein.Graphical abstractSingle crystals of the inter-lanthanide series LaLn′O (Ln′=Y, Ho–Lu) were grown using molten hydroxide fluxes.
La3NbO7 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. There are two inequivalent La3+ sites. In the first La3+ site, La3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent NbO6 octahedra, corners with three equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent NbO6 octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 31–42°. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.36–2.72 Å. In the second La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.45–2.49 Å. Nb5+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form NbO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NbO6 octahedra, corners with four equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 32°. There are a spread of Nb–O bond distances ranging from 1.95–2.10 Å. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four La3+ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLa4 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to three La3+ and one Nb5+ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLa3Nb tetrahedra. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and one Nb5+ atom. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms.


•Ln3NbO7 ceramics were obtained by molten-salt synthesis.•SXRD, SHG and Raman scattering confirmed orthorhombic and cubic structures.•Ccmm instead of C2221 is the correct structure for Sm–Gd ceramics.•Pmcn space group was confirmed for La-, Pr- and Nd-based ceramics.•For Tb–Lu ceramics, ordered domains of a pyrochlore structure were observed.

LaNbO4 is Zircon-like structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/a space group. La3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.50 Å) and four longer (2.51 Å) La–O bond lengths. Nb5+ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All Nb–O bond lengths are 1.89 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent La3+ and one Nb5+ atom.

Single crystals of LaNb7O12 were obtained by annealing a mixture of La2O3, Nb2O5, and Nb in 1:1:1 molar ratio with NH4Cl in a sealed quartz tube. LaNb7O12 crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P2(1)/c with cell parameters a 10.762(1), b = 9.192(1), c = 10.314(1) Angstrom, beta = 104.25 degrees, and z = 4 formula units per cell. The structure was determined from single-crystal X-ray diffraction data and refined to a residual of R(F) = 0.037 and R(W)(F-2) = 0.077 for 119 variable parameters and a unique data set of 1400 observations [I > 2 sigma(I)]. The essential building units of the structure are Nb-6 and NbO6 octahedra and La ions in eight coordination of oxygen. Two NbO6 octahedra corner-share to form a pair and connect with Nb-6 octahedra via oxygen atoms. Nb-6 octahedra share both apical and inner oxygen atoms with neighboring Nb-6 to form columns of Nb6O12 clusters along the c axis. The Nb6O12 clusters exhibit 14 valence electrons in M-M bonding states. LaNb7O12 is a semiconductor with an activation energy of 0.08 eV. The magnetic susceptibility data show weak temperature-independent paramagnetism. The Madelung part of the lattice energy has been calculated and is discussed. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc. [References: 21] 
LaNbO4 crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/c space group. La3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.46–2.55 Å. Nb5+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted edge-sharing NbO6 tetrahedra. There are a spread of Nb–O bond distances ranging from 1.87–2.54 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and one Nb5+ atom.
Phase transition and high-temperature properties of rare-earth niobates (LnNbO4, where Ln = La, Dy and Y) were studied in situ at high temperatures using powder X-ray diffraction and thermal analysis methods. These materials undergo a reversible, pure ferroelastic phase transition from a monoclinic (S.G. I2/a) phase at low temperatures to a tetragonal (S.G. I41/a) phase at high temperatures. While the size of the rare-earth cation is identified as the key parameter, which determines the transition temperature in these materials, it is the niobium cation which defines the mechanism. Based on detailed crystallographic analysis, it was concluded that only distortion of the NbO4 tetrahedra is associated with the ferroelastic transition in the rare-earth niobates, and no change in coordination of Nb5+ cation. The distorted NbO4 tetrahedron, it is proposed, is energetically more stable than a regular tetrahedron (in tetragonal symmetry) due to decrease in the average Nb–O bond distance. The distortion is affected by the movement of Nb5+ cation along the monoclinic b-axis (tetragonal c-axis before transition), and is in opposite directions in alternate layers parallel to the (010). The net effect on transition is a shear parallel to the monoclinic [100] and a contraction along the monoclinic b-axis. In addition, anisotropic thermal expansion properties and specific heat capacity changes accompanying the transition in the studied rare-earth niobate systems are also discussed.


The structures of RNbO4 (rare-earth orthoniobate) single and twinned crystals have been studied in detail : (i) High temperature phase is scheelite structure (S. G. I4_1/a) and low temperature phase is monoclinic scheelite structure (S. G. I2/c= I2/a) ; (ii) Shuffles of all the constituent atoms are needed in twinning ; (iii) The mechanical twins in their crystals are defined as a twin of the third kind. All the domain walls of RNbO4 crystals are the W' walls of the ferroelastic species 4/mF2/m proposed by Sapriel.
The ferroelasticity of MP5O14 (M: La-Tb) which has the commensurate W domain boundary and LaNbO4 which is believed to have the incommensurate W' domain boundary has been studied by scanning tunneling microscope (STM), tapping-mode atomic force microscope (AFM) with a heat-supplying apparatus, time of flight (TOF) neutron diffraction and X-ray diffraction analyses.

The fergusonite-scheelite structural transition of LaNbO4 was characterized by high-intensity variable temperature neutron powder diffraction in an effort to link structural changes to proton transport in the low temperature monoclinic and high temperature tetragonal polymorphs. The pronounced decrease in enthalpy of proton mobility with increasing temperature in monoclinic LaNbO4, identified by Fjeld et al. [1], was found to coincide with the decrease in a key inter-tetrahedral oxygen separation. At temperatures above the transition, this oxygen to oxygen distance remains constant, behavior that is consistent with the invariant nature of the calculated enthalpy of mobility for the tetragonal phase. This oxygen separation is therefore proposed as the key structural parameter determining the success rate of proton transfer and ultimately the proton diffusion in LaNbO4. Infrared measurements performed on acceptor-doped LaNbO4 show an absorption in the region 2500 to 3700&#xa0;cm−1 attributed to the O–H stretching motion influenced by hydrogen bonding.


Refinement of the crystal structure is made for the room temperature phases of LaNbO<sub>4</sub> and NdNbO<sub>4</sub>. The final R index is 0.0457 for LaNbO<sub>4</sub> and 0.0342 for NdNbO<sub>4</sub>. From precise atomic parameters, the vectors of the shuffles for all atoms out of "the plane of shear" (010) are determined. Since the twins in the crystals are connected with the parents by a new kind of relation, in that they are folded only by a rotation about the b-axis normal to the plane of shear, they are called "twins of the third kind".


LaNb1−xTaxO4(0⩽x⩽0.4) with the monoclinic Fergusonite structure, was observed to transform to a tetragonal Scheelite, while monoclinic LaNb1−xTaxO4(0.8⩽x⩽1) was shown to transform to an orthorhombic crystal structure.
La3NbO7 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Cmcm space group. There are two inequivalent La3+ sites. In the first La3+ site, La3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent NbO6 octahedra, corners with three equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent NbO6 octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 38°. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.34–2.73 Å. In the second La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.44 Å) and four longer (2.77 Å) La–O bond lengths. Nb5+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form NbO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NbO6 octahedra, corners with four equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent LaO7 pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 29°. There are four shorter (2.01 Å) and two longer (2.02 Å) Nb–O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to four La3+ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLa4 tetrahedra. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and one Nb5+ atom.
Compounds Ln 3 MO 7, where Ln = La, Nd, Gd, Ho, Er, Y, or Sc, and M = Nb, Ta, or Sb have been examined by powder X-ray diffraction, electron diffraction, and electron microscopy. For large Ln cations, an orthorhombic fluorite-related superstructure is formed, of probable space group Cmcm for Ln = La and C222 1 for Ln = Nd, Gd, Ho, or Y, while for the smaller Ln cations, Er, and under some conditions, Ho and Y, the structure is defect fluorite containing microdomains of ordered, but undetermined, structure. The composition Sc 3 MO 7 was not single phase under the conditions used. Compounds of the type Ln 2Sc MO 7 have the pyrochlore structure.
LaNb‚āáO‚āĀ‚āČ crystallizes in the trigonal P321 space group. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.47‚Äď2.69 √Ö. There are four inequivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ sites. In the first Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded in a distorted octahedral geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are three shorter (1.96 √Ö) and three longer (2.09 √Ö) Nb‚ÄďO bond lengths. In the second Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.88‚Äď2.51 √Ö. In the third Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.00‚Äď2.05 √Ö. In the fourth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.98‚Äď2.10 √Ö. There are ten inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to three equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and three equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and three equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms.
LaNb‚āąO‚āĀ‚āĄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pbam space group. La¬≤‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, corners with four equivalent NbO‚āÖ square pyramids, edges with six NbO‚āÖ square pyramids, faces with four equivalent NbO‚āÜ octahedra, and faces with two equivalent NbO‚āÖ square pyramids. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.61‚Äď3.02 √Ö. Nb‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one NbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with six NbO‚āÖ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent NbO‚āÖ square pyramids, and faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď2.10 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Nb¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Nb¬≥‚Āļ site, Nb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÖ square pyramids that share a cornercorner with one LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, a cornercorner with one NbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with six NbO‚āÖ square pyramids, an edgeedge with one LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, an edgeedge with one NbO‚āÜ octahedra, and an edgeedge with one NbO‚āÖ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 49¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.08‚Äď2.19 √Ö. In the second Nb¬≥‚Āļ site, Nb¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÖ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent NbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with six equivalent NbO‚āÖ square pyramids, an edgeedge with one LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and a faceface with one LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5‚Äď48¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.09‚Äď2.21 √Ö. There are six inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one La¬≤‚Āļ and three Nb¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLaNb‚āÉ tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one La¬≤‚Āļ, one Nb‚Āī‚Āļ, and two Nb¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent La¬≤‚Āļ and two equivalent Nb‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Nb‚Āī‚Āļ and two equivalent Nb¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La¬≤‚Āļ, one Nb‚Āī‚Āļ, and two Nb¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent Nb¬≥‚Āļ atoms.
LaNb‚āÖO‚āĀ‚āĄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pbcm space group. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with four equivalent NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four equivalent NbO‚āÜ octahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with four equivalent NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.44‚Äď2.93 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ sites. In the first Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent NbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two equivalent NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent NbO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 21¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.82‚Äď2.22 √Ö. In the second Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent NbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and edges with two NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 24‚Äď38¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.89‚Äď2.13 √Ö. In the third Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, a cornercorner with one NbO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two equivalent NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, an edgeedge with one NbO‚āÜ octahedra, edges with two NbO‚āá pentagonal bipyramids, and faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 50¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.93‚Äď2.49 √Ö. There are eight inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLa‚āāNb‚āā tetrahedra. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms.
Preparation and Structure of LaNb 5 O 14 Single crystals of LaNb 5 O 14 could be prepared by chemical transport reactions (T 2 → T 1 ; T 2 = 1050°C; T 1 = 950°C) using chlorine as transport agent. LaNb 5 O 14 crystallizes in the orthorhombic space group Pbem with cell dimensions a = 3.8749(2) ; b = 12.4407(6) and c = 20.2051(9) ; Z = 4; R = 6.28%, R w = 3.74%. The structure consists of two types of Nb O-polyhedra. Especially remarkable are chains of edge-sharing pentagonal NbO 7 -bipyramids, which are interconnected by corner-sharing NbO 6 -octahedra. Tunnels running in a-direction are created by this framework of NbO 6 - and NbO 7 -polyhedra. Lanthanum atoms are located in these tunnels at levels inbetween the niobium atoms. The relationship to O LaTa 3 O 9 and M CeTa 3 O 9 type structures will be discussed.
La3Nb8O24 crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. La2+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight NbO6 octahedra. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.66–2.82 Å. La3+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, a faceface with one LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight NbO6 octahedra. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.66–2.82 Å. There are two inequivalent Nb5+ sites. In the first Nb5+ site, Nb5+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form NbO6 octahedra that share corners with six NbO6 octahedra, a faceface with one LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2–17°. There are a spread of Nb–O bond distances ranging from 1.94–2.09 Å. In the second Nb5+ site, Nb5+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form NbO6 octahedra that share corners with six NbO6 octahedra, a faceface with one LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–17°. There are a spread of Nb–O bond distances ranging from 1.94–2.09 Å. There are nine inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La2+, one La3+, and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La2+, one La3+, and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the sixth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La2+, two equivalent La3+, and two Nb5+ atoms. In the seventh O2- site, O2- is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the eighth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one La2+ and two Nb5+ atoms. In the ninth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two Nb5+ atoms.
LaNb‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight NbO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.60‚Äď2.87 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight NbO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.64‚Äď2.87 √Ö. There are six inequivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ sites. In the first Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with two LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2‚Äď15¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď2.03 √Ö. In the second Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3‚Äď17¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.14 √Ö. In the third Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3‚Äď17¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.12 √Ö. In the fourth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3‚Äď18¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.93‚Äď2.09 √Ö. In the fifth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4‚Äď18¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.89‚Äď2.17 √Ö. In the sixth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with two LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2‚Äď14¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.94‚Äď2.06 √Ö. There are eighteen inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fourteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fifteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the sixteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the seventeenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the eighteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms.
LaNb‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight NbO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.60‚Äď2.88 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight NbO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.66‚Äď2.86 √Ö. There are six inequivalent Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ sites. In the first Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with two LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1‚Äď15¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď2.03 √Ö. In the second Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2‚Äď17¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.92‚Äď2.15 √Ö. In the third Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2‚Äď17¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.94‚Äď2.12 √Ö. In the fourth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2‚Äď18¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.93‚Äď2.09 √Ö. In the fifth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with three LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3‚Äď18¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.89‚Äď2.17 √Ö. In the sixth Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ site, Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form NbO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six NbO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with two LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1‚Äď13¬į. There are a spread of Nb‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.95‚Äď2.03 √Ö. There are twelve inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Nb‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atoms.
LaNb2O7 crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. The structure is two-dimensional and consists of one LaNb2O7 sheet oriented in the (0, 0, 1) direction. La3+ is bonded to four equivalent O1- and eight equivalent O2- atoms to form a mixture of face and corner-sharing LaO12 cuboctahedra. All La–O bond lengths are 2.78 Å. All La–O bond lengths are 2.67 Å. Nb5+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one O1- and five O2- atoms. The Nb–O bond length is 2.34 Å. There is one shorter (1.75 Å) and four longer (2.04 Å) Nb–O bond lengths. O1- is bonded to four equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa4Nb2 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Nb5+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Nb5+ atom.


MLaNb2O7(M K, Na, Li, H) compounds were synthesized by a solid state reaction for M K and by ion exchange for M Na, Li and H, respectively, and their crystal structures were analysed by a Rietveld method. In the structures for all the compounds, the main framework is built up of a double layer of perovskite units (LaNb2O7) and an alkali ion or proton is located at the sites between the layers. Ionic conduction attributed to the interlayer ion was observed above 200 °C for all the compounds.
LaNbO2 crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/amd space group. La3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form edge-sharing LaO6 octahedra. There are two shorter (2.48 Å) and four longer (2.51 Å) La–O bond lengths. Nb1+ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All Nb–O bond lengths are 2.19 Å. O2- is bonded to three equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Nb1+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa3Nb2 trigonal bipyramids.
Laв‚‚CrOв‚† crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/c space group. LaВівЃє is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.37вЂ“2.76 Г…. CrвЃ¶вЃє is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four OВІвЃ» atoms. There are two shorter (1.64 Г…) and two longer (1.65 Г…) CrвЂ“O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent OВІвЃ» sites. In the first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to four equivalent LaВівЃє atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLaв‚„ tetrahedra. In the second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two equivalent LaВівЃє and one CrвЃ¶вЃє atom. In the third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a single-bond geometry to two equivalent LaВівЃє and one CrвЃ¶вЃє atom.
ChemInform is a weekly Abstracting Service, delivering concise information at a glance that was extracted from about 200 leading journals. To access a ChemInform Abstract of an article which was published elsewhere, please select a "Full Text" option. The original article is trackable via the "References" option.
Magnetic properties of perovskite-type compounds La"1"-"xSr"xCrO"3(x=0, 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20, and 0.25) have been reported. Their DC magnetic susceptibilities were measured from 4.5 K to 320 K. All these compounds showed an antiferromagnetic transition and their Neel temperatures decreased linearly from 286 K for LaCrO"3with increasing Sr substitution. Below the Neel temperatures, other two magnetic transitions were furthermore observed for almost all the compounds. Below the Neel temperatures, all the compounds except LaCrO"3showed magnetic hysteresis. The initial magnetization curve indicates the existence of the metamagnetic property below 20 K. Powder neutron measurements were performed at room temperature, 250 K and 50 K for La"0"."8"5Sr"0"."1"5CrO"3. It was found that the crystal phase and magnetic transition occurred between 50 K and 250 K. The crystal structure at 250 K is rhombohedral with space groupR3c, and it transforms to an orthorhombic structure with space groupPnmaat 50 K. The magnetic structures at 50 K and at 250 K are both theG-type. The direction of magnetic moments is directed to [111] of the rhombohedral unit cell at 250 K and changes to be parallel to thez-axis of the orthorhombic unit cell (Pnma) at 50 K.


Perovskite-type (La Nd )CrO has the orthorhombic GdFeO -type structure with the space group Pnma. The electrical resistivity of (La Nd )CrO(0≤x≤1.0) was measured in the temperature range 300 to 1000 K. Although the cell volume decreases linearly with increasing x, significant compositional dependence on electrical resistivity is not found. (La Nd )CrO is a p-type semiconductor with an activation energy of ca. 0.26 to ca. 0.28 eV. Rietveld analysis and XPS measurements indicate that each CrO octahedron has little distortion and that the decrease in the angles for Cr-O(1)-Cr or Cr-O(2)-Cr is caused by the linear decrease in the cell volume.


A systematic investigation of rare earth chromium manganites with general formula La1−xNdxMn0.5Cr0.5O3(x=0.0,0.3,0.6 and 0.9) has been undertaken mainly to understand their structural, magnetic as well as electrical behavior. Upon Nd doping on La site, unit cell volume and the B–O–B bond angle are reduced. The magnetic interactions in the materials are predominantly ferromagnetic and we believe that double exchange interactions between Mn3+ and Mn4+, and Mn3+ and Cr3+ should be the origin of ferromagnetism. The Curie temperature decreases with increasing Nd content. All the samples are semiconducting throughout the temperature range studied. The electric transport behavior can be described by the adiabatic small polaron hoping model, with an apparent increase of polaron activation energy with Nd content.


The full rare-earth (RE) chromites series (RE)CrO3 with an orthorhombic distorted (Pnma) perovskite structure and the isostructural compound YCrO3 can be synthesized through a simple microwave-assisted technique, yielding high-quality materials. Magnetization measurements evidence that the Neel temperature for antiferromagnetic Cr3+-Cr3+ ordering strongly depends on the RE3+ ionic radius (IOR), and a rich variety of different magnetic spin interactions exists. Dielectric spectroscopy on sintered pellets indicates electronic inhomogeneity in all samples as manifested by the presence of at least two dielectric relaxation processes associated with grain boundary and grain interior bulk contributions. X-ray diffraction, Raman spectroscopy, and temperature-dependent dielectric permittivity data do not indicate potential noncentroxymmetry in the crystal or concomitant ferroelectricity. Strong correlations between the magnetic and dielectric properties were not encountered, and microwave-synthesized (RE)CrO3 may not be classified as magnetoelectric or multiferroic materials.


The crystal and magnetic structures of LaCrO3 and La(Cr0.90Ti0.10)O3 have been investigated between 5 and 350K by means of neutron powder diffraction and DC magnetic measurements. Both compounds are characterized by an antiferromagnetic Gx-type ordering at low temperature. Structural features suggest the occurrence of Ti in the tetra-valent state. Despite the mixed valence induced by Ti-substitution leading to the occurrence of the Jahn–Teller species Cr2+, no evidence for long range ferromagnetism can be detected. On account of a miscibility gap, a higher degree of Ti-substitution at the Cr site cannot be achieved; as a consequence the solid state solubility of Ti in LaCrO3 at 1573K has been ascertained.
A new series of complex perovskite-type compounds La1−xSrxCr1−xTixO3involving substitutions at bothAandBsites was prepared by the ceramic technique (final heating at 1350°C). X-ray powder diffraction and profile-refinement study of this series show it to comprise orthorhombic perovskites (Pbnm,a≈b≈2ap,c≈2ap,Z=4) in the range 0≤x≤0.7 and tetragonal perovskites (I4/mcm,a≈2ap,c≈2ap,Z=4) in the range 0.8≤x≤0.9. The tetragonal to cubic phase transition occurs betweenx=0.9 and 1.0. Cation ordering is not observed in this solid solution series. The structures of the orthorhombic and tetragonal members are derived from the cubic aristotype by rotation of (Cr,Ti)O6octahedra. In contrast to mostPbnm-type perovskites, the orthorhombic compounds in the series La1−xSrxCr1−xTixO3havea>b, possibly resulting from distortion of the octahedra.
LaCrO‚āĄ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2‚āĀ/c space group. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.48‚Äď2.85 √Ö. Cr‚ĀĶ‚Āļ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Cr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.69‚Äď1.71 √Ö. There are four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Cr‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Cr‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Cr‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Cr‚ĀĶ‚Āļ atom.
LaCrO3 crystallizes in the trigonal R̅3c space group. La3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine equivalent O2- atoms. There are three shorter (2.41 Å) and six longer (2.75 Å) La–O bond lengths. Cr3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form corner-sharing CrO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 21°. All Cr–O bond lengths are 1.98 Å. O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Cr3+ atoms.
LaCrO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. La3+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent CrO6 octahedra. All La–O bond lengths are 2.78 Å. Cr3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form CrO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent CrO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Cr–O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Cr3+ atoms.


An orthorhombic to a rhombohedral structural phase transition of LaCrO3 has been studied by the neutron powder diffraction over the temperature range of 295–1013 K. At the phase transition around 260°C, the negative volume expansion was observed, and the amount of the volume compression was estimated to be 0.0813753(0.138%) per formula unit. The coefficients of volume thermal expansion, (1/V)/V/T), were estimated to be 2.285(16)×105 K1 and 2.842(12)×105 K1 for the orthorhombic and rhombohedral phases, respectively. The Rietveld refinement revealed that the volume compression at the phase transition was principally due to the shrinking of the [CrO6] octahedra.


Strontium-doped lanthanum chromites, La1xSrxCrO3, have been synthesised to investigate the effect of strontium doping on the stability and physico-chemical characteristics of the perovskite LaCrO3. Both microscopic and X-ray examinations show that the materials exist as single phase perovskite structure for all compositions up to 50 mole% strontium substitution. The materials have been further characterized by infrared and electron paramagnetic resonance spectra. These materials show a good sinterability even in air at 1773 K. Electrical conductivity of thse perovskites has been measured as a function of temperature. Electrical conductivity has been found to be a maximum at x=0.2. The observed electrical and magnetic properties are consistent with activated polaron transport as the mechanism for electrical conduction in these materials.
We synthesized the cubic A-site deficient perovskites Sr0.5+xLi0.5−2x□xMO3(M=Ti0.5Ta0.5) and La-doped Sr0.55−1.5xLaxLi0.4□0.5x+0.05MO3(SR55LA), Sr0.575−1.5xLaxLi0.35□0.5x+0.075MO3(SR575LA), and Sr0.6−1.5xLaxLi0.3□0.5x+0.1MO3(SR60LA), and their lithium ion conductivities were elucidated. Among these compounds, the highest ionic conductivity, σ=7.2×10−4 S cm−1 at 294 K, was found in SR575LA(x=0.05). In Sr0.5+xLi0.5−2x□xTi0.5Ta0.5O3, the lattice constants were independent of the composition, and the composition dependence of the ionic conductivity indicates that the conduction mechanism involves the vacancy diffusion process of the lithium ions and vacancies that percolate through the A-site sublattice including the skeletal ions, Sr2+ as obstacles. In contrast, in La-doped systems, the composition dependence of the ionic conductivity was found to be associated with (1) the vacancy diffusion process including site percolation and (2) the reduction of bottleneck size due to the substitution of La that depresses the conductivity. Furthermore, it was found that the activation energy derived from dc conductivity is influenced by long-range cooperative ionic motion together with the local structure, e.g., bottleneck size.
La‚āāCr‚āāO‚āÖ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Ima2 space group. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.37‚Äď2.86 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Cr¬≤‚Āļ sites. In the first Cr¬≤‚Āļ site, Cr¬≤‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form CrO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent CrO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with two equivalent CrO‚āĄ trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 26¬į. There are two shorter (2.01 √Ö) and four longer (2.02 √Ö) Cr‚ÄďO bond lengths. In the second Cr¬≤‚Āļ site, Cr¬≤‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form CrO‚āĄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent CrO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with two equivalent CrO‚āĄ trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 23¬į. There are a spread of Cr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.01‚Äď2.15 √Ö. There are three inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Cr¬≤‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OLa‚āāCr‚āā trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLa‚āĄCr‚āā octahedra, corners with four equivalent OLa‚āāCr‚āā trigonal pyramids, an edgeedge with one OLa‚āĄCr‚āā octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OLa‚āāCr‚āā trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 60‚Äď61¬į. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two Cr¬≤‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Cr¬≤‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OLa‚āĄCr‚āā octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLa‚āāCr‚āā trigonal pyramids, edges with two equivalent OLa‚āāCr‚āā trigonal pyramids, and faces with two equivalent OLa‚āĄCr‚āā octahedra.
La2Cr2O5 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Ima2 space group. La3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.30–2.96 Å. There are two inequivalent Cr2+ sites. In the first Cr2+ site, Cr2+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form CrO6 octahedra that share corners with four equivalent CrO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent CrO4 trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 20°. There are four shorter (2.03 Å) and two longer (2.04 Å) Cr–O bond lengths. In the second Cr2+ site, Cr2+ is bonded to four O2- atoms to form CrO4 trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent CrO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent CrO4 trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 28°. There are a spread of Cr–O bond distances ranging from 2.05–2.31 Å. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Cr2+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La3+ and two Cr2+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Cr2+ atoms to form corner-sharing OLa2Cr2 tetrahedra.
La2CrO6 crystallizes in the trigonal R̅3 space group. La3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine equivalent O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.38–2.79 Å. Cr6+ is bonded in an octahedral geometry to six equivalent O2- atoms. All Cr–O bond lengths are 1.84 Å. O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La3+ and one Cr6+ atom.
La‚āāTi‚āāO‚āá is Pb (Zr0.50Ti0.48) O3-like structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pna2‚āĀ space group. There are four inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.42‚Äď2.82 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.43‚Äď2.88 √Ö. In the third La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.38‚Äď3.01 √Ö. In the fourth La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.37‚Äď2.53 √Ö. There are four inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17‚Äď36¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.84‚Äď2.21 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15‚Äď36¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.82‚Äď2.22 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15‚Äď39¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.82‚Äď2.22 √Ö. In the fourth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17‚Äď39¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.78‚Äď2.26 √Ö. There are fourteen inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLa‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.


La2Ti2O7 was prepared and investigated by X-ray diffraction. Lattice constants: a = 25·745, b = 7·810, c = 5·547 A ; space group C 2 v 9 Pna2 1. The single-crystal structure investigation shows that La2Ti2O7 is isotypic with Ca2Nb2O7 and Sr2Nb2O7. The results obtained are discussed.
La‚āāTiO‚āÖ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted LaO‚āá hexagonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent LaO‚āá hexagonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.38‚Äď2.59 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.45‚Äď2.53 √Ö. Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three equivalent LaO‚āá hexagonal pyramids, corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LaO‚āá hexagonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.79‚Äď2.02 √Ö. There are five inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four La¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OLa‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with twelve OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra and edges with three OLa‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form distorted OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra that share corners with eight OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra and edges with three OLa‚āĄ tetrahedra.
The crystal structures of seven samples of orthorhombic (Pnma) Ln2TiO5 compounds with Ln=La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd, Tb and Dy were refined by Rietveld analysis of synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction (S-XRD) data. With increasing size of the lanthanide cation, the lattice parameters increase systematically: c by only ~1.5% whereas both a and b by ~6% from Dy2TiO5 to La2TiO5.

The mean Ti–O bond length only increases by ~1% with increasing radius of the Ln cation from Gd to La, primarily due to expansion of the pair of Ti–O3 bonds to opposite corners of the Ti–O5 square based pyramid polyhedra. For Dy2TiO5 and Tb2TiO5, a significant variation in Ti–O1 and Ti–O4 bond lengths results in an increased deformation of the Ti–O5 base.

The particular configuration consists of large rhombic shaped tunnels and smaller triangular tunnels along the b axis, which have implications for defect formation and migration caused by radiation damage or the ionic conductivity.


Successful Rietveld refinements of seven compounds with the formulae La2Ti(1x)GaxO(5x/2) , where x = 0.00, 0.20, 0.50, 0.70, 0.90, 0.95 and 1.00, were performed in order to describe the solid solubility between orthorhombic ( Pnam ) La2TiO5 and monoclinic ( P21/c) La4Ga2O9 . The relationship between the end-member structures, which are already known, is discussed; the space-group change is a consequence of ordering the oxygen vacancies that become more numerous as Ga is substituted for Ti. The structures of the solid solutions are also described. The lengths of cell edges obey Vegard's rule.


Normalized enthalpy of formation for one RE3+ cation from the oxides for several RE ternary oxide systems vs. the cation radius ratio RA/RB (A=RE, B=Ti, Zr, P). All the RE ternary oxide systems are stable relative to constituent oxides, with increasing stability as RA/RB increases. The Roman numerals above the cations represent the coordination number. Formation enthalpies and heat capacities of RE2TiO5 (RE=La, Nd and Gd) were determined. Enthalpies of formation of RE2TiO5 from oxides become more negative with increasing RE3+ ionic radius. RE2TiO5 phases are stable in enthalpy with respect to their oxides and the pyrochlore RE2Ti2O7 phases. Thermodynamic stability of orthorhombic RE2TiO5 decrease with increasing RB to RA ratio.
The structure of orthorhombic rare earth titanates of La2TiO5 and Nd2TiO5, where Ti cations are in five-fold coordination with oxygen, has been studied at high pressures by X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman scattering measurements, and quantum mechanical calculations. Both XRD and Raman results indicated two pressure-induced phase transitions during the process. An orthorhombic super cell (a×b×2c) formed at a pressure between 6 and 10&#xa0;GPa, and then transformed to a hexagonal high-pressure phase accompanied by partial decomposition. The hexagonal high-pressure phase is quenchable. Detailed structural analysis indicated that the five-coordinated TiO5 polyhedra remain during the formation of super cell, but the orthorhombic-to-hexagonal phase transition at high pressures is a reconstructive process, and the five-fold Ti–O coordination increased to more than 6. This phase transition sequence was verified by quantum mechanical calculations.
La5Ti5O17 is PbZr0.50Ti0.48O3-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P21/c space group. There are five inequivalent La3+ sites. In the first La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.45–2.88 Å. In the second La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.40–2.54 Å. In the third La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.48–2.99 Å. In the fourth La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.42–2.81 Å. In the fifth La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.37–3.04 Å. Ti3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–41°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.83–2.23 Å. There are five inequivalent Ti4+ sites. In the first Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra and corners with four TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–37°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.83–2.21 Å. In the second Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–41°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.79–2.30 Å. In the third Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–37°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.85–2.25 Å. In the fourth Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra and corners with four equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15–25°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.96–2.02 Å. In the fifth Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15–24°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.96–2.01 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLa3Ti tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to two La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra that share corners with three OLa3Ti tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the sixth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the seventh O2- site, O2- is bonded to two La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms to form distorted OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra that share corners with four OLa3Ti tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra. In the eighth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the ninth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the tenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLa3Ti tetrahedra. In the eleventh O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the twelfth O2- site, O2- is bonded to two La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted edge-sharing OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra. In the thirteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the fourteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the fifteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the sixteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLa3Ti tetrahedra. In the seventeenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two La3+ and one Ti4+ atom.
Laв‚‚Tiв‚‚Oв‚‡ is PbZr0.50Ti0.48O3-like structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2в‚Ѓ space group. There are four inequivalent LaВівЃє sites. In the first LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.37вЂ“2.52 Г…. In the second LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.42вЂ“2.81 Г…. In the third LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.37вЂ“3.01 Г…. In the fourth LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.43вЂ“2.88 Г…. There are four inequivalent TiвЃґвЃє sites. In the first TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiOв‚† octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17вЂ“40В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.78вЂ“2.26 Г…. In the second TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiOв‚† octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15вЂ“36В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.82вЂ“2.21 Г…. In the third TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiOв‚† octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15вЂ“40В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.82вЂ“2.25 Г…. In the fourth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiOв‚† octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17вЂ“36В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.84вЂ“2.22 Г…. There are fourteen inequivalent OВІвЃ» sites. In the first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLaв‚ѓTi tetrahedra. In the second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fourth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLaв‚ѓTi tetrahedra. In the fifth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the sixth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the seventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to three LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLaв‚ѓTi tetrahedra. In the eighth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two equivalent TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the ninth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the tenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the eleventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two equivalent TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the twelfth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLaв‚‚Tiв‚‚ tetrahedra. In the thirteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fourteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms.
La‚āĄTi‚āČO‚āā‚āĄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Fddd space group. There are three inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.37‚Äď2.76 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.38‚Äď2.79 √Ö. In the third La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted LaO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with ten TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 41‚Äď63¬į. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.36‚Äď2.68 √Ö. There are five inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one LaO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two TiO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1‚Äď61¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.09 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TiO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LaO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with two TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 41‚Äď50¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.84‚Äď2.26 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.87‚Äď2.33 √Ö. In the fourth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two TiO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with three TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2‚Äď63¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.27 √Ö. In the fifth Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 48¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.06 √Ö. There are thirteen inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted edge-sharing OLa‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and three Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.


The structure of La4Ti9O24 has been solved ab initio from synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction data, and the model refined using the Rietveld method. The material crystallizes in orthorhombic spacegroup Fddd (No. 70) with lattice parameters a = 14.1458 (1)A, b = 35.5267 (4)A and c = 14.5794 (1)A. Refinement proceeded to final agreement values of R p = 15.2% and R wp = 18.41%. The structure consists of a complex network of distorted, octahedrally-coordinated titanium sharing corners and edges with each other and linked by two six coordinated and one eight coordinated lanthanum atom. The distortions of the TiO 6 coordination polyhedra show some similarities to those seen in other titanate materials.
La5Ti5O17 is PbZr0.50Ti0.48O3-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic Pc space group. There are five inequivalent La3+ sites. In the first La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.44–2.89 Å. In the second La3+ site, La3+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form distorted LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra, and faces with six TiO6 octahedra. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.51–3.01 Å. In the third La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.44–2.89 Å. In the fourth La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.40–2.68 Å. In the fifth La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.41–2.72 Å. Ti3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra, corners with four TiO6 octahedra, and faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15–37°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.83–2.12 Å. There are four inequivalent Ti4+ sites. In the first Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–36°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.82–2.17 Å. In the second Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six TiO6 octahedra and faces with two equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14–36°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.83–2.12 Å. In the third Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra, corners with four TiO6 octahedra, and faces with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–24°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.95–1.98 Å. In the fourth Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 15–37°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.82–2.18 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the sixth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two Ti4+ atoms. In the seventh O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the eighth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the ninth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the tenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms. In the eleventh O2- site, O2- is bonded to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLa3Ti tetrahedra. In the twelfth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom. In the thirteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom. In the fourteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLa3Ti tetrahedra. In the fifteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the sixteenth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom. In the seventeenth O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent La3+, one Ti3+, and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLa2Ti2 tetrahedra.
La‚āāTi‚āāO‚āá is PbZr0.50Ti0.48O3-like structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Cmc2‚āĀ space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.42‚Äď3.00 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 12-coordinate geometry to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.43‚Äď3.07 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 19‚Äď41¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.80‚Äď2.26 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14‚Äď41¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.80‚Äď2.25 √Ö. There are seven inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLa‚āÉTi tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to four La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLa‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom.
LaTiO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. La3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.47–2.74 Å. Ti3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 22–25°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 2.02–2.04 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms.
LaTiO3 shows a transition from temperature-independent paramagnetism to antiferromagnetism at 125 K. The temperature coefficient of the electrical resistivity changes at the same temperature from positive (i.e. metal-like) to negative (i.e. semiconductor-like). The crystal structure of LaTiO3 was investigated at five temperatures from 298 K to 10 K by time-of-flight neutron diffraction to look for any structural origin to the above phenomena. Analysis of the 298 K data confirm and improve on an existing X-ray structure determination in Pbnm. The same orthorhombic cell and space group are consistent with the data at all temperatures studied. The cell constants show anisotropy as b and c decrease with temperature and a increases slightly. There are no significant changes in Ti-O bond lengths or Ti-O-Ti angles with temperature. In the La-O polyhedron the eight nearest-neighbour bond distances decrease with decreasing temperature while the next four increase demonstrating a tendency to eightfold coordination. There is no structural anomaly of any significance near 125 K. This is not inconsistent with an itinerant antiferromagnetic model for the transition.
The structures of the RETiO 3 perovskites, RE = La, Nd, Sm, Gd, and Y, were solved using single-crystal, automated diffractometer techniques. All were found to belong to space group Pbnm and are, therefore, isostructural with the REFeO 3 perovskites. The structure of LaTiO 3 was solved using a crystal exhibiting a complex twinning. The REO and TiO coordination polyhedra were studied as a function of the RE ion and were compared with those for REFeO 3. The major difference in results between RETiO 3 and REFeO 3 is a more highly distorted TiO octahedron for RE = Gd and Y.


Using LDA+U (where LDA stands for local-density-approximation and U for on-site coulomb energy) method, we study the structural and electronic properties of LaTiOand (SrTiO)(LaTiO)superlattice structures. Lattice vectors, as well as ionic positions, are relaxed to minimize the LDA+U energy functional. We find that the inclusion of the U term increases the lattice parameters and leads to larger distortions of oxygen octahedra in LaTiOand that the overall agreement with experiment is improved compared to LDA results. In the superlattice, we find that octahedral distortions around the La layer lower the total energy. The ionic relaxations, especially those of Ti atoms near the La layer, affect the spatial distribution of doped electrons, leading to a broader charge profile than the case without ionic relaxation. The corresponding Tiprofile is in good agreement with the electron-energy-loss spectroscopy data.
La3Ti4O12 is Orthorhombic Perovskite-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Amm2 space group. La2+ is bonded in a 12-coordinate geometry to twelve O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.48–3.11 Å. There are two inequivalent La3+ sites. In the first La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 12-coordinate geometry to twelve O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.52–3.05 Å. In the second La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.51–2.73 Å. Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 10–26°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.92–2.05 Å. There are five inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one La2+, two La3+, and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La2+, two La3+, and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La2+, one La3+, and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.
La‚āĄTi‚āÉO‚āĀ‚āā crystallizes in the trigonal RŐÖ3 space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.42‚Äď2.96 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.45‚Äď2.84 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six equivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 21¬į. All Ti‚ÄďO bond lengths are 1.98 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 21¬į. There are three shorter (1.88 √Ö) and three longer (2.12 √Ö) Ti‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.


Results from full profile analysis of powder neutron diffraction patterns (lambda = 1.05 Angstrom and lambda = 2.475 Angstrom) taken at room temperature are presented. The refinements in space group R (3) over bar yielded considerably better reliability factors than those obtained in group R (3) over bar m as suggested in previous X-ray diffraction works. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. There are three inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with eight LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with four equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.63‚Äď2.78 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with six LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with five LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.63‚Äď2.76 √Ö. In the third La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with ten LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with two equivalent LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.55‚Äď2.79 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with six LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0‚Äď12¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.93‚Äď1.99 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with five LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3‚Äď18¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.87‚Äď2.10 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with five LaO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0‚Äď18¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.89‚Äď2.05 √Ö. There are seven inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the triclinic PŐÖ1 space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.35‚Äď3.02 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.32‚Äď2.92 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and an edgeedge with one TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44‚Äď58¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.86‚Äď2.04 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.90‚Äď2.07 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 61‚Äď63¬į. There are two shorter (1.79 √Ö) and two longer (1.86 √Ö) Ti‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are nine inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
La2Ti2O7 crystallizes in the cubic Fd̅3m space group. La3+ is bonded to eight O2- atoms to form distorted LaO8 hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with six equivalent LaO8 hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are two shorter (2.27 Å) and six longer (2.62 Å) La–O bond lengths. Ti4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and edges with six equivalent LaO8 hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 45°. All Ti–O bond lengths are 2.01 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent La3+ atoms to form corner-sharing OLa4 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.


A first-principles method was used to investigate the structural and energetic properties for A2Ti2O7(A = Lu, Er, Y, Gd, Sm, Nd, La), including the formation energies of the cation antisite-pair, the anion Frenkel pair that defines anion-disorder, and the coupled cation antisite-pair/anion-Frenkel. It is proposed that the A–O48f interaction may have more significant influence on the radiation resistance behavior of titanate pyrochlores, although the Ti–O48f interactions are relatively stronger than the A–O48f interactions. It was found that the defect formation energies are not simple functions of the A-site cation radii. The formation energy of the cation antisite-pair increases continuously as the A-site cation varies from Lu to Gd, and then decreases continuously with the variation of the A-site cation from Gd to La, in excellent agreement with the radiation-resistance trend of the titanate pyrochlores. The band gaps in these pyrochlores were also measured, and the band gap widths changed continuously with cation radius.


Density functional theory calculations have been performed to obtain lattice parameters, elastic constants, and electronic properties of ideal pyrochlores with the composition ABO(where A=La ,Y and B=Ti ,Sn,Hf,Zr). Some thermal properties are also inferred from the elastic properties. A decrease of the sound velocity (and thus, of the Debye temperature) with the atomic mass of the B ion is observed. Static and dynamical atomic charges are obtained to quantify the degree of covalency or ionicity. A large anomalous contribution to the dynamical charge is observed for Hf, Zr, and specially for Ti. It is attributed to the hybridization between occupied 2p states of oxygen and unoccupied d states of the B cation. An analysis based on Mulliken population and deformation charge integrated in the Voronoi polyhedra indicates that the ionicity of these pyrochlores increases in the order Sn-Ti-Hf-Zr. The charge deformation contour plots support this assignment.
Laв‚‚Tiв‚ѓOв‚‰ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are four inequivalent LaВівЃє sites. In the first LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded to twelve OВІвЃ» atoms to form LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra that share corners with eight LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, faces with four LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiOв‚† octahedra. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.55вЂ“2.79 Г…. In the second LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded to twelve OВІвЃ» atoms to form LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra that share corners with six LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, faces with five LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiOв‚† octahedra. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.60вЂ“2.78 Г…. In the third LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded to twelve OВІвЃ» atoms to form LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra that share corners with ten LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, faces with two LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiOв‚† octahedra. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.51вЂ“2.84 Г…. In the fourth LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded to twelve OВІвЃ» atoms to form LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra that share corners with six LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, faces with five LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiOв‚† octahedra. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.62вЂ“2.79 Г…. There are six inequivalent TiвЃґвЃє sites. In the first TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with six TiOв‚† octahedra and faces with six LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2вЂ“12В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.88вЂ“2.01 Г…. In the second TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with six TiOв‚† octahedra and faces with five LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2вЂ“16В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.90вЂ“2.09 Г…. In the third TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with six TiOв‚† octahedra and faces with five LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0вЂ“19В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.88вЂ“2.08 Г…. In the fourth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with six TiOв‚† octahedra and faces with five LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0вЂ“19В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.90вЂ“2.04 Г…. In the fifth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with six TiOв‚† octahedra and faces with five LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0вЂ“19В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.88вЂ“2.07 Г…. In the sixth TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to six OВІвЃ» atoms to form TiOв‚† octahedra that share corners with six TiOв‚† octahedra and faces with six LaOв‚Ѓв‚‚ cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0вЂ“13В°. There are a spread of TiвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 1.87вЂ“2.00 Г…. There are eighteen inequivalent OВІвЃ» sites. In the first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two equivalent LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fourth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fifth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the sixth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the seventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the eighth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the ninth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the tenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the eleventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the twelfth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the thirteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fourteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fifteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the sixteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the seventeenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the eighteenth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and two TiвЃґвЃє atoms.
LaTi‚āÜO‚āĀ‚āā crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are two shorter (2.51 √Ö) and two longer (2.52 √Ö) La‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Ti¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti¬≥‚Āļ site, Ti¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49‚Äď52¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.95‚Äď2.09 √Ö. In the second Ti¬≥‚Āļ site, Ti¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49‚Äď51¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.94‚Äď2.06 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49‚Äď52¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.07 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four TiO‚āÜ octahedra and edges with four TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49‚Äď52¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.10 √Ö. There are eight inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ and two Ti¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Ti¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Ti¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and three Ti¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three Ti¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and three Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti¬≥‚Āļ atoms.
La5Ti4O15 crystallizes in the trigonal P̅3c1 space group. La2+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with six equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiO6 octahedra. There are six shorter (2.74 Å) and six longer (2.78 Å) La–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent La3+ sites. In the first La3+ site, La3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six equivalent O2- atoms. There are three shorter (2.51 Å) and three longer (2.55 Å) La–O bond lengths. In the second La3+ site, La3+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form distorted LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with nine equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with three equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with seven TiO6 octahedra. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.52–3.01 Å. There are two inequivalent Ti4+ sites. In the first Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with three equivalent TiO6 octahedra, a faceface with one LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with three equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 14°. There are three shorter (1.90 Å) and three longer (2.06 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. In the second Ti4+ site, Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six TiO6 octahedra, faces with three equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–14°. There are three shorter (1.97 Å) and three longer (1.98 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two equivalent La2+, two equivalent La3+, and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La3+ and one Ti4+ atom. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La2+, two equivalent La3+, and two Ti4+ atoms.


ChemInform is a weekly Abstracting Service, delivering concise information at a glance that was extracted from about 100 leading journals. To access a ChemInform Abstract of an article which was published elsewhere, please select a “Full Text” option. The original article is trackable via the “References” option.
LaTiO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. La3+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent TiO6 octahedra. All La–O bond lengths are 2.80 Å. Ti3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Ti–O bond lengths are 1.98 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms.
LaTi2O6 crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. La is bonded to twelve O atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, faces with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are eight shorter (2.63 Å) and four longer (2.72 Å) La–O bond lengths. Ti is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and faces with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–23°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.83–2.20 Å. There are three inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two equivalent La and two equivalent Ti atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded to four equivalent La and two equivalent Ti atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLa4Ti2 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the third O site, O is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Ti atoms.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2‚āĀ space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted LaO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with six TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 58‚Äď59¬į. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.37‚Äď2.60 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.30‚Äď2.55 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with three equivalent LaO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 45‚Äď64¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.76‚Äď1.91 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with three equivalent LaO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 63‚Äď68¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.78‚Äď1.88 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 58‚Äď59¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.79‚Äď2.20 √Ö. There are nine inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.28‚Äď2.86 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.30‚Äď2.68 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two equivalent TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 16¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.95‚Äď2.01 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and a cornercorner with one TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 68¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.76‚Äď1.91 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted TiO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent TiO‚āÜ octahedra and a cornercorner with one TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 65¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.79‚Äď2.16 √Ö. There are seven inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the hexagonal P6‚āÉ/m space group. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six equivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are three shorter (2.37 √Ö) and three longer (2.60 √Ö) La‚ÄďO bond lengths. Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āĄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.81‚Äď1.88 √Ö. There are two inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom.
La‚āĄTi‚āÉO‚āĀ‚āā crystallizes in the triclinic PŐÖ1 space group. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.33‚Äď2.71 √Ö. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.35‚Äď2.65 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 26‚Äď27¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.00‚Äď2.02 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 27¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.91‚Äď2.10 √Ö. In the third Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 26¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.88‚Äď2.11 √Ö. There are six inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom.
La2Ti3O9 crystallizes in the cubic I23 space group. La3+ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six equivalent O2- atoms. There are three shorter (2.49 Å) and three longer (2.50 Å) La–O bond lengths. Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 61°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.93–2.05 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.
LaTi2O6 crystallizes in the tetragonal I̅42m space group. La is bonded to twelve O atoms to form LaO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra and faces with eight equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.65–2.85 Å. Ti is bonded to six O atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and faces with four equivalent LaO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–7°. There are two shorter (1.94 Å) and four longer (1.95 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two equivalent La and two equivalent Ti atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two equivalent La and two equivalent Ti atoms.
La2Ti2O5 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Imma space group. La3+ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O2- atoms. There are a spread of La–O bond distances ranging from 2.53–3.06 Å. There are two inequivalent Ti2+ sites. In the first Ti2+ site, Ti2+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 13°. There are four shorter (1.98 Å) and two longer (2.03 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. In the second Ti2+ site, Ti2+ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O2- atoms. There are two shorter (1.96 Å) and two longer (2.04 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti2+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La3+ and two Ti2+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent La3+ and two equivalent Ti2+ atoms to form distorted face-sharing OLa4Ti2 octahedra.
La‚āāTi‚āāO‚āÖ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Ima2 space group. La¬Ļ‚Āļ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.54‚Äď3.05 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing TiO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 11¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď2.02 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are two shorter (1.96 √Ö) and two longer (2.02 √Ö) Ti‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La¬Ļ‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La¬Ļ‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four equivalent La¬Ļ‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
LaTiвӮҶOвӮҒвӮӮ crystallizes in the triclinic PМ…1 space group. LaВівҒә is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten OВІвҒ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 2.33вҖ“3.08 Г…. There are three inequivalent TiВівҒә sites. In the first TiВівҒә site, TiВівҒә is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвҒ» atoms. There are a spread of TiвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 1.87вҖ“2.37 Г…. In the second TiВівҒә site, TiВівҒә is bonded to six OВІвҒ» atoms to form distorted TiOвӮҶ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, a cornercorner with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, a cornercorner with one TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramid, edges with three TiOвӮҶ octahedra, and edges with two TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7вҖ“31В°. There are a spread of TiвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 1.87вҖ“2.24 Г…. In the third TiВівҒә site, TiВівҒә is bonded to six OВІвҒ» atoms to form distorted TiOвӮҶ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, corners with two equivalent TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramids, an edgeedge with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, edges with three TiOвӮҶ octahedra, and an edgeedge with one TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 7В°. There are a spread of TiвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 1.84вҖ“2.18 Г…. There are three inequivalent TiвҒҙвҒә sites. In the first TiвҒҙвҒә site, TiвҒҙвҒә is bonded to five OВІвҒ» atoms to form distorted TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three TiOвӮҶ octahedra, an edgeedge with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, an edgeedge with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, and an edgeedge with one TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 26вҖ“61В°. There are a spread of TiвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 1.87вҖ“2.10 Г…. In the second TiвҒҙвҒә site, TiвҒҙвҒә is bonded to five OВІвҒ» atoms to form TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramids that share an edgeedge with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra and edges with two TiOвӮҶ octahedra. There are a spread of TiвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 1.83вҖ“2.12 Г…. In the third TiвҒҙвҒә site, TiвҒҙвҒә is bonded to six OВІвҒ» atoms to form distorted TiOвӮҶ octahedra that share a cornercorner with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, an edgeedge with one TiOвӮҶ octahedra, and edges with two TiOвӮ… trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 31В°. There are a spread of TiвҖ“O bond distances ranging from 1.74вҖ“2.23 Г…. There are twelve inequivalent OВІвҒ» sites. In the first OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a water-like geometry to two TiвҒҙвҒә atoms. In the second OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two equivalent LaВівҒә, one TiВівҒә, and two TiвҒҙвҒә atoms. In the third OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four TiВівҒә atoms. In the fourth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one TiВівҒә and two equivalent TiвҒҙвҒә atoms. In the fifth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one LaВівҒә, one TiвҒҙвҒә, and two TiВівҒә atoms. In the sixth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a T-shaped geometry to one LaВівҒә, one TiвҒҙвҒә, and two TiВівҒә atoms. In the seventh OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded to one TiвҒҙвҒә and three TiВівҒә atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OTiвӮ„ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent LaВівҒә, one TiВівҒә, and one TiвҒҙвҒә atom. In the ninth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded to two TiВівҒә and two TiвҒҙвҒә atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OTiвӮ„ trigonal pyramids. In the tenth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one LaВівҒә, one TiВівҒә, and one TiвҒҙвҒә atom. In the eleventh OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one LaВівҒә, one TiВівҒә, and one TiвҒҙвҒә atom. In the twelfth OВІвҒ» site, OВІвҒ» is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent LaВівҒә and two TiвҒҙвҒә atoms.
We present an algorithm for generating all derivative superstructures of a nonprimitive parent lattice. The algorithm has immediate application in important materials design problems such as modeling hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) alloys. Extending the work of Hart and Forcade [Phys. Rev. B 77, 224115 (2008)] (which applies only to Bravais lattices), this approach applies to arbitrary multilattices. The algorithm enumerates superlattices and atomic configurations using permutation groups rather than direct geometric comparisons. The key concept is to use the quotient group associated with each superlattice to determine all unique atomic configurations. The algorithm is very efficient; the run time scales linearly with the number of unique structures found. We demonstrate the algorithm in the important case of hcp-derived superstructures. In the list of enumerated hexagonal-close-packed derivative superstructures, we predict several as-yet-unobserved structures as likely candidates for new intermetallic prototypes.


An inorganic crystal structure data base is described which will, when completed in the next year, contain details of all the 23 000 published structures of inorganic crystals. This paper describes the structure of the data base, the procedures used to check the data as they are entered, and the program used to access them. Plans for the future development of the data base system include defining search keys on the basis of bonding topologies and crystal structure types as well as plans for providing an integrated crystal structure retrieval system.


In this work we provide a list of 256 crystal entries in the Inorganic Crystal Structure Database that have errors, incomplete information, or are given the generic name "zeolite" when they may belong to a different family of crystals.
Single crystals of the new reduced strontium titanate SrTi11O20 (space group P1, a = 7.1252(8) , b = 7.6644(8) , c = 13.1577(16) , α = 90.21(1)°, β = 92.79(1)°, γ = 103.94(1)°) are formed by slowly cooling SrTiO2.5 in molten SrO·2B2O3 flux in high vacuum. The compound crystallizes in a new structure type based on sheared double and single rutile chains of TiO6 octahedra. Formation of a new monoclinically distorted reduced Ti-hollandite, La1.33Ti8O16 (space group I2/m, a = 9.946(2) , b = 2.9668(4) , c = 10.280(2) , β = 91.09(2)°), was observed upon dissolving LaTiO3 in a molten La2O3 · 3B2O3 flux. The crystal structures of both compounds were determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction.
Laв‚„TiOв‚€ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mbm space group. There are three inequivalent LaВівЃє sites. In the first LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.21вЂ“2.72 Г…. In the second LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.27вЂ“2.80 Г…. In the third LaВівЃє site, LaВівЃє is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are a spread of LaвЂ“O bond distances ranging from 2.37вЂ“2.48 Г…. There are two inequivalent TiвЃґвЃє sites. In the first TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded in an octahedral geometry to six OВІвЃ» atoms. There are two shorter (1.90 Г…) and four longer (2.10 Г…) TiвЂ“O bond lengths. In the second TiвЃґвЃє site, TiвЃґвЃє is bonded to four OВІвЃ» atoms to form edge-sharing TiOв‚„ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.81 Г…) and two longer (1.85 Г…) TiвЂ“O bond lengths. There are seven inequivalent OВІвЃ» sites. In the first OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to four equivalent LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the second OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom. In the third OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to two equivalent TiвЃґвЃє atoms. In the fourth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four LaВівЃє atoms. In the fifth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three LaВівЃє atoms. In the sixth OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three LaВівЃє atoms. In the seventh OВІвЃ» site, OВІвЃ» is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three LaВівЃє and one TiвЃґвЃє atom.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Immm space group. The structure is two-dimensional and consists of two La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ sheets oriented in the (0, 0, 1) direction. La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.38‚Äď2.79 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.69‚Äď2.05 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are two shorter (1.88 √Ö) and two longer (1.92 √Ö) Ti‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLa‚āāTi‚āā tetrahedra. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to four equivalent La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ crystallizes in the triclinic PŐÖ1 space group. The structure is one-dimensional and consists of one La‚āāTi‚āÉO‚āČ ribbon oriented in the (1, 0, 1) direction. There are two inequivalent La¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one O¬Ļ‚ĀĽ and two O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. The La‚ÄďO bond length is 2.31 √Ö. There is one shorter (2.41 √Ö) and one longer (2.79 √Ö) La‚ÄďO bond length. In the second La¬≥‚Āļ site, La¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of La‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.14‚Äď2.51 √Ö. Ti¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.77‚Äď2.03 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.54‚Äď2.56 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one O¬Ļ‚ĀĽ and one O¬≤‚ĀĽ atom. The Ti‚ÄďO bond length is 1.22 √Ö. The Ti‚ÄďO bond length is 1.68 √Ö. O¬Ļ‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. There are eight inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti¬≥‚Āļ atom. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to one La¬≥‚Āļ and one Ti¬≥‚Āļ atom. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Ti¬≥‚Āļ atom.
GdInO3 crystallizes in the hexagonal P63cm space group. There are two inequivalent Gd3+ sites. In the first Gd3+ site, Gd3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.35–2.58 Å. In the second Gd3+ site, Gd3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted GdO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with three equivalent InO5 trigonal bipyramids and edges with three equivalent InO5 trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.32–2.47 Å. In3+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form InO5 trigonal bipyramids that share a cornercorner with one GdO7 pentagonal bipyramid, corners with six equivalent InO5 trigonal bipyramids, and an edgeedge with one GdO7 pentagonal bipyramid. There are a spread of In–O bond distances ranging from 2.09–2.15 Å. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Gd3+ and one In3+ atom to form OGd3In tetrahedra that share corners with ten OGd3In tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent OGd3In tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Gd3+ and one In3+ atom to form distorted OGd3In tetrahedra that share corners with ten OGd3In tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent OGd3In tetrahedra, and an edgeedge with one OGdIn3 trigonal pyramid. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to one Gd3+ and three equivalent In3+ atoms to form distorted OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids that share corners with six equivalent OGd3In tetrahedra, corners with six equivalent OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids, and edges with three equivalent OGd3In tetrahedra. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to one Gd3+ and three equivalent In3+ atoms to form distorted OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids that share corners with six equivalent OGd3In tetrahedra, corners with six OGdIn3 trigonal pyramids, and edges with three equivalent OGd3In tetrahedra.
Gd3InO6 is Ilmenite-like structured and crystallizes in the trigonal R̅3 space group. Gd3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form distorted GdO6 pentagonal pyramids that share corners with two InO6 octahedra, corners with four equivalent GdO6 pentagonal pyramids, edges with two InO6 octahedra, and edges with four equivalent GdO6 pentagonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 38–49°. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.25–2.38 Å. There are two inequivalent In3+ sites. In the first In3+ site, In3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form InO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent GdO6 pentagonal pyramids and edges with six equivalent GdO6 pentagonal pyramids. All In–O bond lengths are 2.21 Å. In the second In3+ site, In3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form InO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent GdO6 pentagonal pyramids and edges with six equivalent GdO6 pentagonal pyramids. All In–O bond lengths are 2.17 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to three equivalent Gd3+ and one In3+ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OGd3In trigonal pyramids. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to three equivalent Gd3+ and one In3+ atom.
GdInO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Gd3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.27–2.97 Å. In3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing InO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 41–46°. There are a spread of In–O bond distances ranging from 2.17–2.23 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Gd3+ and two equivalent In3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Gd3+ and two equivalent In3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OGd2In2 trigonal pyramids.
Gd3InO6 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Cmc21 space group. There are two inequivalent Gd3+ sites. In the first Gd3+ site, Gd3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.27–2.65 Å. In the second Gd3+ site, Gd3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted edge-sharing GdO7 pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.34–2.49 Å. In3+ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O2- atoms. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and three longer (2.10 Å) In–O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Gd3+ atoms to form OGd4 tetrahedra that share corners with six OGd4 tetrahedra, corners with six equivalent OGd3In trigonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent OGd4 tetrahedra, and an edgeedge with one OGd3In trigonal pyramid. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Gd3+ and one In3+ atom to form distorted OGd3In trigonal pyramids that share corners with eight OGd4 tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OGd3In trigonal pyramids, edges with two OGd4 tetrahedra, and an edgeedge with one OGd3In trigonal pyramid. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Gd3+ and one In3+ atom. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Gd3+ and one In3+ atom to form distorted OGd3In tetrahedra that share corners with eight equivalent OGd4 tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent OGd3In trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OGd3In trigonal pyramids.
Gd2Zr2O7 crystallizes in the cubic Fd̅3m space group. Gd3+ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are two shorter (2.29 Å) and six longer (2.54 Å) Gd–O bond lengths. Zr4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form corner-sharing ZrO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 53°. All Zr–O bond lengths are 2.09 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Gd3+ and two equivalent Zr4+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OGd2Zr2 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Gd3+ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OGd4 tetrahedra.
The development of the ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) method has made it a powerful tool in describing ion–solid interactions in materials, with the determination of threshold displacement energies with ab initio accuracy, and prediction of a new mechanism for defect generation and new defective states that are different from classical molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. In the present work, this method is employed to study the low energy recoil events in Gd2Zr2O7 and Gd2Ti2O7. The weighted average threshold displacement energies in Gd2Zr2O7 are determined to be 38.8 eV for Gd, 41.4 eV for Zr, 18.6 eV for O48f, and 15.6 eV for O8b, which are smaller than the respective values of 41.8, >53.8, 22.6 and 16.2 eV in Gd2Ti2O7. It reveals that all the ions in Gd2Zr2O7 are more easily displaced than those in Gd2Ti2O7, and anion order–disorder is more likely to be involved in the displacement events than cation disordering. The average charge transfer from the primary knock-on atom to its neighbors is estimated to be ∼0.15, ∼0.11 to 0.27 and ∼0.1 to 0.13 |e| for Gd, Zr (or Ti), and O, respectively. Neglecting the charge transfer in the interatomic potentials may result in the larger threshold displacement energies in classical MD.
Gd‚āāZr‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the monoclinic P2‚āĀ/c space group. There are two inequivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.26‚Äď2.70 √Ö. In the second Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.26‚Äď2.47 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.02‚Äď2.19 √Ö. In the second Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted ZrO‚āÜ pentagonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, an edgeedge with one ZrO‚āÜ pentagonal pyramid, and an edgeedge with one ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.02‚Äď2.29 √Ö. There are seven inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and three Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OGdZr‚āÉ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OGd‚āÉZr trigonal pyramid, and edges with two OGdZr‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form distorted OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra, corners with five OGdZr‚āÉ trigonal pyramids, and an edgeedge with one OGd‚āÉZr trigonal pyramid. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form distorted OGd‚āÉZr trigonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra, a cornercorner with one OGdZr‚āÉ trigonal pyramid, an edgeedge with one OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra, and edges with two OGdZr‚āÉ trigonal pyramids. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
Gd‚āāZr‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmna space group. There are three inequivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted GdO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six ZrO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 62‚Äď66¬į. There are two shorter (2.26 √Ö) and four longer (2.31 √Ö) Gd‚ÄďO bond lengths. In the second Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.40‚Äď2.74 √Ö. In the third Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted GdO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with six ZrO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.28‚Äď2.58 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form ZrO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GdO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four ZrO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent GdO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49‚Äď66¬į. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.07‚Äď2.16 √Ö. In the second Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.17‚Äď2.61 √Ö. In the third Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form ZrO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GdO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with four equivalent ZrO‚āÜ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent GdO‚āą hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 50‚Äď62¬į. There are four shorter (2.10 √Ö) and two longer (2.15 √Ö) Zr‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and three Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OGd‚āÉZr tetrahedra.


We present an algorithm for generating all derivative superstructures of a nonprimitive parent lattice. The algorithm has immediate application in important materials design problems such as modeling hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) alloys. Extending the work of Hart and Forcade [Phys. Rev. B 77, 224115 (2008)] (which applies only to Bravais lattices), this approach applies to arbitrary multilattices. The algorithm enumerates superlattices and atomic configurations using permutation groups rather than direct geometric comparisons. The key concept is to use the quotient group associated with each superlattice to determine all unique atomic configurations. The algorithm is very efficient; the run time scales linearly with the number of unique structures found. We demonstrate the algorithm in the important case of hcp-derived superstructures. In the list of enumerated hexagonal-close-packed derivative superstructures, we predict several as-yet-unobserved structures as likely candidates for new intermetallic prototypes.


An inorganic crystal structure data base is described which will, when completed in the next year, contain details of all the 23 000 published structures of inorganic crystals. This paper describes the structure of the data base, the procedures used to check the data as they are entered, and the program used to access them. Plans for the future development of the data base system include defining search keys on the basis of bonding topologies and crystal structure types as well as plans for providing an integrated crystal structure retrieval system.


In this work we provide a list of 256 crystal entries in the Inorganic Crystal Structure Database that have errors, incomplete information, or are given the generic name "zeolite" when they may belong to a different family of crystals.
The effect of non-stoichiometry on the crystal structure and total conductivity of Ln(2+x)Zr(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd; x = 0-0.286) was investigated. The intensity of the pyrochlore superlattice reflections from Ln(2+x)Zr(2-x)O(7-x/2) is shown to decrease with increasing Ln concentration. Within the homogeneity range of the pyrochlore phase of Ln(2+x)Zr(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd), the activation energy of high -temperature conduction in samples prepared by 1600 degrees C sintering of mechanically activated oxide mixtures (Ln2O3 and ZrO2) is similar to 0.87-1.04 eV. The highest conductivity among the Ln(2+x)Zr(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd) materials is offered by stoichiornetric Ln2Zr2O7 samples with a pyrochlore structure, which contain 5-8.1% Ln(Zr)+ Zr-Ln anti-structure pairs, except for Gd2Zr2O7 (similar to 22%). The crystal structure of Ln(2+x)Hf(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd) is investigated after sintering at 1000-1670 degrees C. The compounds Ln2.096Hf1.904O6.9 (Ln=Eu, Gd) prepared by 1200 degrees C sintering of mechanically activated oxides (Ln2O3 and HfO2) undergo a fluorite-type to pyrochlore phase transition above 1200 degrees C. The conductivity of Gd2Hf2O7 and Sm2.096Hf1.904O6.952 sintered at 1600 degrees C seems to be ionic above 780 degrees C, with an activation energy of 0.77 and 0.82 eV, respectively. In this work, using mechanical activation of starting mixtures, the conductivity of the Ln(2+x)Hf(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd) haftiates was raised close to the level of Ln(2+x)Zr(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd). The haftiates synthesized by the procedure in question are similar in structural disorder to Ln(2+x)Zr(2-x)O(7-x/2) (Ln = Sm-Gd), and the disorder ensures high oxygen ion mobility and, accordingly, significant high-temperature conductivity. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved. 
Gd‚āąZr‚āáO‚āā‚āÜ crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. There are five inequivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.37‚Äď2.54 √Ö. In the second Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted GdO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GdO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two equivalent ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent ZrO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 68¬į. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.28‚Äď2.39 √Ö. In the third Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.22‚Äď2.73 √Ö. In the fourth Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.31‚Äď2.59 √Ö. In the fifth Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.30‚Äď2.66 √Ö. There are three inequivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent GdO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with five ZrO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51‚Äď56¬į. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď2.09 √Ö. In the second Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form ZrO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent ZrO‚āÜ octahedra and corners with two equivalent ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 51¬į. All Zr‚ÄďO bond lengths are 2.12 √Ö. In the third Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form ZrO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with three ZrO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two equivalent ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids, and an edgeedge with one GdO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51‚Äď56¬į. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.99‚Äď2.24 √Ö. There are nine inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Gd¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with eight OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra and edges with two OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Gd¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra that share corners with six OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra.


We present an algorithm for generating all derivative superstructures of a nonprimitive parent lattice. The algorithm has immediate application in important materials design problems such as modeling hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) alloys. Extending the work of Hart and Forcade [Phys. Rev. B 77, 224115 (2008)] (which applies only to Bravais lattices), this approach applies to arbitrary multilattices. The algorithm enumerates superlattices and atomic configurations using permutation groups rather than direct geometric comparisons. The key concept is to use the quotient group associated with each superlattice to determine all unique atomic configurations. The algorithm is very efficient; the run time scales linearly with the number of unique structures found. We demonstrate the algorithm in the important case of hcp-derived superstructures. In the list of enumerated hexagonal-close-packed derivative superstructures, we predict several as-yet-unobserved structures as likely candidates for new intermetallic prototypes.


An inorganic crystal structure data base is described which will, when completed in the next year, contain details of all the 23 000 published structures of inorganic crystals. This paper describes the structure of the data base, the procedures used to check the data as they are entered, and the program used to access them. Plans for the future development of the data base system include defining search keys on the basis of bonding topologies and crystal structure types as well as plans for providing an integrated crystal structure retrieval system.


In this work we provide a list of 256 crystal entries in the Inorganic Crystal Structure Database that have errors, incomplete information, or are given the generic name "zeolite" when they may belong to a different family of crystals.
The detailed structure investigations of Zr2Gd2O7 with pyrochlore- and fluorite-type structures have been carried out by X-ray single crystal method at room temperature. The bond distances between cations and oxide ions versus the site population for cations reasonably support that the fluorite phase is made up of the structure with microdomains of the pyrochlore. Sharp fundamental and diffuse superstructure reflections of the pyrochlore are interpreted assuming that anti-phase domain boundaries lie parallel to the &{211} and that domain sizes are not uniform. It should be proposed that the layers composed of the 48f site oxide ions are anti-phase boundaries. The probability density function maps and effective one-particle potentials of the pyrochlore structure reveal that the magnitudes of anharmonic thermal motions for the 48f site oxide ions are large toward the unoccupied 8b site. Compared to the s-pyrochlore phase (with sharp superstructure reflections), the 48f site oxide ions of the d-pyrochlore (with diffuse superstructure reflections) and fluorite phases have larger temperature factors and gentler potential curves. This is due to that the anti-phase domains are coherent each other and that their electron density distributions are the averages of individual domains.
Gd‚āāZr‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the orthorhombic Imma space group. There are two inequivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are four shorter (2.27 √Ö) and two longer (2.28 √Ö) Gd‚ÄďO bond lengths. In the second Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.31‚Äď2.57 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZrO‚āÜ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 49¬į. There are two shorter (2.10 √Ö) and four longer (2.13 √Ö) Zr‚ÄďO bond lengths. In the second Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.29‚Äď2.35 √Ö. There are four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra.
Gd‚āāZr‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the cubic FdŐÖ3m space group. Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six equivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. All Gd‚ÄďO bond lengths are 2.29 √Ö. Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. All Zr‚ÄďO bond lengths are 2.28 √Ö. There are two inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two equivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four equivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OZr‚āĄ tetrahedra.


Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Raman spectroscopic study of order–disorder-phase transition with increase in the content of Gd in Nd2−yGdyZr2O7 solid solution is being reported. It has been observed from Rietveld analysis that with increase in concentration of Gd in Nd2−yGdyZr2O7, the value of the x parameter of the 48f oxygen changes from 0.332(1) to 0.343(1) with a sudden change in the slope for y=1.8, which indicates that the structure is transforming from ordered pyrochlore to disordered pyrochlore. In addition to that a sudden and drastic change in the Raman spectra including changes in the position and width of several Raman modes beyond y⩾1.8 has also been observed which has been correlated with increasing disorder. Based on these studies, it is suggested that there is a discontinuous order–disorder transition from ‘perfect pyrochlore’ to ‘defect pyrochlore’ phase in Nd2−yGdyZr2O7 solid solution.
The present work explores the potential of Gd2Zr2O7 for incorporation of ThO2 and Al2O3 which are components of Advanced Heavy Water Reactors (AHWR) waste. XRD studies reveal that the compositions corresponding to y from 0.0 to 0.4 in Gd 2 yThyZr2yAlyO7 are single phasic in nature and beyond y > 0.4 the biphasic region starts. The solubility of thoria in Gd2Zr2O7 pyrochlore could be enhanced by more than five times by simultaneous incorporation of alumina. The lattice parameter increases with increase in Th and Al content in the series. The r A/ r B ratio increases with increase in Th and Al content in Gd2Zr2O7 and in turn the degree order increases as has been seen by gradual increase in the intensity of superstructure peaks. Single phasic samples were investigated by Raman spectroscopy also. Thermal expansion behavior of single phasic samples was investigated by HT-XRD. In order to confirm the nature of the phases backscattered images have been recorded on all the samples.


The structure of Gd{sub 2}Zr{sub 2}O{sub 7} pyrochlore over the temperature range 4-300 K has been refined from powder neutron diffraction data. The sample was enriched in {sup 160}Gd to avoid the high neutron absorption of naturally occurring Gd. The diffraction pattern showed well resolved superlattice reflections indicative of the pyrochlore structure and no evidence is found for anion-disorder from the structural refinements. - Graphical abstract: Gd{sub 2}Zr{sub 2}O{sub 7} enriched in {sup 160}Gd prepared. Neutron diffraction reveals ordering of the anions. Precise structure established. Highlights: > A sample of Gd{sub 2}Zr{sub 2}O{sub 7} was prepared using {sup 160}Gd. > Precise structure established from 4 to 300 K using powder neutron diffraction. > No evidence for disorder of the oxygen anions is found.
Gd‚āāZr‚āāO‚āá crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are six inequivalent Gd¬≥‚Āļ sites. In the first Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.24‚Äď2.61 √Ö. In the second Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.11‚Äď2.68 √Ö. In the third Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.22‚Äď2.79 √Ö. In the fourth Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.19‚Äď2.77 √Ö. In the fifth Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.22‚Äď2.70 √Ö. In the sixth Gd¬≥‚Āļ site, Gd¬≥‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Gd‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.23‚Äď2.82 √Ö. There are six inequivalent Zr‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to four O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form corner-sharing ZrO‚āĄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.84‚Äď2.09 √Ö. In the second Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.90‚Äď2.23 √Ö. In the third Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted ZrO‚āÖ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent ZrO‚āĄ tetrahedra and a cornercorner with one ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.88‚Äď2.25 √Ö. In the fourth Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted ZrO‚āÖ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent ZrO‚āÜ octahedra and a cornercorner with one ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37‚Äď61¬į. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.95‚Äď2.19 √Ö. In the fifth Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted ZrO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids that share a cornercorner with one ZrO‚āÜ octahedra, corners with two ZrO‚āÖ square pyramids, and a cornercorner with one ZrO‚āĄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 41¬į. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.95‚Äď2.23 √Ö. In the sixth Zr‚Āī‚Āļ site, Zr‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZrO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Zr‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.00‚Äď2.38 √Ö. There are twenty-one inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to four Gd¬≥‚Āļ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal pyramidal geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fifth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the eighth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the ninth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a water-like geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the tenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the eleventh O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the twelfth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the thirteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OGd‚āāZr‚āā trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra. In the fourteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms to form distorted OGd‚āāZr‚āā tetrahedra that share an edgeedge with one OGd‚āĄ tetrahedra and an edgeedge with one OGd‚āāZr‚āā trigonal pyramid. In the fifteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the sixteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and two Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the seventeenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three Gd¬≥‚Āļ atoms. In the eighteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the nineteenth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a water-like geometry to one Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the twentieth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Gd¬≥‚Āļ and one Zr‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the twenty-first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three Gd¬≥‚Āļ atoms.
GdZrO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. Gd2+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form GdO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent GdO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent GdO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent ZrO6 octahedra. All Gd–O bond lengths are 2.94 Å. Zr4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form ZrO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent ZrO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent GdO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Zr–O bond lengths are 2.08 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Gd2+ and two equivalent Zr4+ atoms.
BaGd2O4 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Ba2+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Ba–O bond distances ranging from 2.74–2.97 Å. There are two inequivalent Gd3+ sites. In the first Gd3+ site, Gd3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing GdO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 50–60°. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.29–2.38 Å. In the second Gd3+ site, Gd3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing GdO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 50–60°. There are a spread of Gd–O bond distances ranging from 2.29–2.40 Å. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ba2+ and three equivalent Gd3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ba2+ and three Gd3+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Ba2+ and three equivalent Gd3+ atoms to form distorted edge-sharing OBa2Gd3 square pyramids. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ba2+ and three Gd3+ atoms.


Sintered bodies of BaM2O4 (M: La, Nd, Sm, Gd, Ho or Y) with CaFe2O4-related structure were synthesized by sintering BaCO3-M2O3 mixtures. The temperature dependence of oxygen ionic conductivity and the relationship between the ionic radius of M3+ ions in B sites and the crystal structure of BaM2O4 were investigated. The ionic conductivity type in BaM2O4 was divided into two groups; (a) BaLa2O4, BaNd2O4 and BaSm2O4 with order-disorder transition and (b) BaGd2O4, BaHo2O4 and BaY2O4 without the transition. There were vacant spaces in the crystal structure of BaNd2O4 and BaSm2O4 with order-disorder transition due to the distortion in the a-axis direction of an oxygen octahedron. By assuming that the vacant space is an oxygen vacancy, the ionic conductivity in BaLa2O4, BaNd2O4 and BaSm2O4 has been explained with a model of the order-disorder transition for oxygen vacancies without significant shifting of cations in the crystal lattice.


The series of compounds in the BaLn2O4 family (Ln=La–Lu, Y) has been synthesized for the first time in single crystalline form, using a molten metal flux. The series crystallizes in the CaV2O4 structure type with primitive orthorhombic symmetry (space group Pnma, #62), and a complete structural study of atomic positions, bonds, angles, and distortions across the lanthanide series is presented. With the exception of the Y, La, Eu, and Lu members, magnetic susceptibility measurements were performed between 2K and 300K. BaCe2O4 and BaYb2O4 display large crystal fields effects and suppression of magnetic ordering. All compounds show signs of magnetic frustration due to the trigonal arrangements of the trivalent lanthanide cations in the structure.
EuFeO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Eu3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.38–2.71 Å. Fe3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 26–27°. There are a spread of Fe–O bond distances ranging from 2.00–2.02 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Eu3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OEu2Fe2 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Eu3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms.
Hydrothermal synthesis and magnetic properties of multiferroic rare-earth orthoferrites.
Rare-earth orthoferrites RFeO3 are gifted with fantastic magnetic properties. They have become a research focus for developing multiferroics in recent years. However, it is difficult to obtain pure-phase RFeO3 from the high-temperature synthesis methods. In this work, we report hydrothermal synthesis of well-crystallized pure-phase orthoferrites RFeO3 (R = Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, Yb and Lu) in low temperatures. Structures, morphologies and magnetic properties of the products were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), magnetic property measurement system (MPMS), vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM), etc. The expected products were determined to be orthorhombic crystals of perovskite structure. The influences of alkalinity, reaction temperature and time on the formation and growth of RFeO3 crystals were investigated in details, and a dissolution–precipitation mechanism was proposed for describing the formation and growth. Optimum hydrothermal conditions for synthesizing orthoferrites RFeO3 were concluded. The magnetic properties were systematically characterized and studied, including antiferromagnetic transition of Fe (TN1), spin reorientation (TSR), compensation effect (Tcomp), ordering of R (TN2), etc. The relation between the magnetic properties of RFeO3 and the ionic radii of R was investigated and discussed. The experimental results in this work may provide fundamental support to the research and development of multiferroic materials.
Eu3FeO6 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Cmc21 space group. There are two inequivalent Eu3+ sites. In the first Eu3+ site, Eu3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with five EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids, corners with three equivalent FeO4 tetrahedra, edges with five EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids, an edgeedge with one FeO4 tetrahedra, and a faceface with one EuO7 pentagonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.28–2.69 Å. In the second Eu3+ site, Eu3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids, a cornercorner with one FeO4 tetrahedra, edges with eight EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids, and an edgeedge with one FeO4 tetrahedra. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.36–2.51 Å. Fe3+ is bonded to four O2- atoms to form FeO4 tetrahedra that share corners with seven EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids and edges with three EuO7 pentagonal bipyramids. There are two shorter (1.88 Å) and two longer (1.90 Å) Fe–O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Eu3+ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OEu4 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Eu3+ and one Fe3+ atom. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Eu3+ and one Fe3+ atom. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Eu3+ and one Fe3+ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OEu3Fe tetrahedra.


Single crystals of Ln 3FeO6( Ln=La, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd) were grown out of a high temperature hydroxide melt. The crystal structures were determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction. These oxides crystallize in the polar space group Cmc2 1 where the orientations of the FeO4 tetrahedra determine the polarity of the structure. The lanthanide atoms are located in a seven-fold, square face mono-capped trigonal prismatic coordination environment; these polyhedra are edge-shared to form zig-zag chains.
Eu3Fe5O12 crystallizes in the cubic Ia̅3d space group. Eu3+ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.43 Å) and four longer (2.54 Å) Eu–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Fe3+ sites. In the first Fe3+ site, Fe3+ is bonded to four equivalent O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO4 tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 52°. All Fe–O bond lengths are 1.90 Å. In the second Fe3+ site, Fe3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO6 octahedra. All Fe–O bond lengths are 2.05 Å. O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Eu3+ and two Fe3+ atoms.
EuFeO3 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Imma space group. Eu3+ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O2- atoms. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.36–2.80 Å. Fe3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing FeO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 22–28°. There are four shorter (1.99 Å) and two longer (2.01 Å) Fe–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Eu3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Eu3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms.
Eu2Fe2O5 crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. There are two inequivalent Eu2+ sites. In the first Eu2+ site, Eu2+ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. All Eu–O bond lengths are 2.54 Å. In the second Eu2+ site, Eu2+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form EuO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, faces with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent FeO5 square pyramids. There are four shorter (2.80 Å) and eight longer (2.93 Å) Eu–O bond lengths. Fe3+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form FeO5 square pyramids that share corners with five equivalent FeO5 square pyramids and faces with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra. There is one shorter (1.95 Å) and four longer (1.99 Å) Fe–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four Eu2+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms.
EuFeO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. Eu3+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form EuO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent FeO6 octahedra. All Eu–O bond lengths are 2.73 Å. Fe3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form FeO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent FeO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Fe–O bond lengths are 1.93 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu3+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms.
Eu2Fe2O5 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Ima2 space group. Eu2+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.31–2.96 Å. There are two inequivalent Fe3+ sites. In the first Fe3+ site, Fe3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form FeO6 octahedra that share corners with four equivalent FeO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent FeO4 tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 14°. There are a spread of Fe–O bond distances ranging from 1.98–2.10 Å. In the second Fe3+ site, Fe3+ is bonded to four O2- atoms to form FeO4 tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent FeO6 octahedra and corners with two equivalent FeO4 tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 33°. There are a spread of Fe–O bond distances ranging from 1.98–2.11 Å. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Eu2+ and two Fe3+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Fe3+ atoms to form corner-sharing OEu2Fe2 tetrahedra.
Eu2Ti2O7 crystallizes in the cubic Fd̅3m space group. Eu3+ is bonded to eight O2- atoms to form distorted EuO8 hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with six equivalent EuO8 hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are two shorter (2.21 Å) and six longer (2.53 Å) Eu–O bond lengths. Ti4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and edges with six equivalent EuO8 hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 47°. All Ti–O bond lengths are 1.97 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Eu3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Eu3+ atoms to form corner-sharing OEu4 tetrahedra.
Mixed pyrochlore oxides LnEuTi2O7 (Ln=Gd and Y) were prepared by solid-state reaction and their structures have been confirmed and characterized using X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), Raman, FT-IR and photoluminescence (PL) techniques. Raman spectra and X-ray diffraction patterns revealed the formation of pure oxides after sintering at 1200 °C. These compounds were crystallized in a pyrochlore structure A2B2O7 in a cubic lattice with an Fd3m space group and their refined lattice parameters were in the range of 10.197(6)–10.157(4) A for GdEuTi2O7 and YEuTi2O7 , respectively. The X-ray Rietveld analysis indicated that Eu 3+ ions were located in the A 3+ site with inversion symmetry. The IR active bands, characteristic of the A and B sites of a pyrochlore compound, were detected by infrared spectroscopy due to their metal–oxygen bonds. The samples luminescence properties were analyzed by measuring the excitation and emission spectra. Results indicated that the as-prepared samples showed a strong emission of Eu 3+ under their radiation of 325 nm. For LnEuTi2O7 oxides, the orange emission at 589 nm was the strongest, which corresponded to the magnetic dipole transition 5 D 0 – 7 F 1 due to an energy transfer from hosts. However, the red emissions 5 D 0 – 7 F 2 were very weak because electronic dipole transitions are parity forbidden. This fact also confirmed that the Eu 3+ ions were located in the sites with the inversion center.


ChemInform is a weekly Abstracting Service, delivering concise information at a glance that was extracted from about 100 leading journals. To access a ChemInform Abstract of an article which was published elsewhere, please select a "Full Text" option. The original article is trackable via the "References" option.
We report the synthesis and structural study of mixed oxides in LnEuTi2O7 series. We are presently investigating new phases with Ln = Gd and Dy, including the pyrochlore family Re2Ti2O7 (Re = Eu, Gd and Dy). Starting from stoichiometric mixtures of elemental oxides TiO2, Eu2O3 and Ln2O3 (Ln = Gd and Dy), single-phase samples were obtained using a conventional ceramic method. The presence of crystalline phases after heat treatment from 1000 to 1200 °C was studied by combining XRD and Raman spectroscopy. X-ray diffraction combined to the Raman analysis confirmed the powder's single-phase nature at 1200 °C. The expected compositions GdEuTi2O7 and DyEuTi2O7 were confirmed by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDAX) and X-ray diffraction (XRD). FT-IR spectra of the obtained compounds also show the absorption bands corresponding to the pyrochlore structure A2B2O7 and give information about the distribution of ions between the A and B sites. X-ray powder diffraction results showed that the resulting phases GdEuTi2O7 and DyEuTi2O7 crystallize with the pyrochlore type structure, cubic Fd3m space group. The structures are determined by Rietveld refinement. The evolution of cell parameters and interatomic distances as a function of lanthanide cation size is discussed. The refined cell parameter a, and the positional coordinate, x, for O, determinated from Rietveld refinements, were related to the Ln~(3+) ions (Ln~(3+) = Gd~(3+), Dy~(3+)) occupying the Re site.
Rare-earth titanates, RE2Ti2O7 (where RE = a rare-earth) with the pyrochlore structure continue to be investigated for use as potential stable host materials for nuclear and actinide-rich wastes. Accordingly, the present work is directed towards the elucidation of the fundamental structural, physical, and thermochemical properties of this class of compounds. Single-crystals of the rare earth pyrochlores were synthesized using a high-temperature flux technique and were subsequently characterized using single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The cubic lattice parameters display an approximately linear correlation with the RE -site cation radius. Theoretical calculations of the lattice constants and bond lengths of the subject materials were carried out using density functional theory, and the results are compared to the experimental values. The Sm and Eu titanates exhibit a covalency increase between the REO8 and TiO6 polyhedral resulting in a deviation from the increasing linear lattice parameter through the transition series. Gd2Ti2O7 with the 4f 7 half-filled f-orbital Gd 3+ sub-shell exhibits the lowest 48 f oxygen positional parameter. The coefficient of thermal expansion for the rare-earth titanate series is approximately linear, and it has a range of 10.1–11.2 × 10 −6 °C −1 . Raman spectroscopy indicated that the ∼530 cm −1 peak associated with the Ti–O stretching mode follows a general trend of decreasing frequency with increasing RE reduced mass. 


X-ray Rietveld analysis of 1xA2Ti2O7-xFe2TiO5(A= Eu, Y) solid solutions. The study of the binary system Y2Ti2O7-Fe2TiO5 and Eu2Ti2O7-Fe2TiO5 shows new solid solutions which are non-stoichiometric and crystallize with the pyrochlore structure. A Rietveld analysis of the 1xA2Ti2O7-xFe2TiO5 structure for A = Y and Eu is reported. The structural refinements were achieved in the space group Fd3m. Refinements show that the Fe 3+ ions substitute for the Y 3+ or Eu 3+ ions with creation of vacancies in the titanium and anionic sublattices.
The axial electric field gradient (EFG) at the Eu site of cubic pyrochlore Eu2Z2O7 (where Z=Ti, Ru, Ir, Mo, Sn, Zr, Pb, Pt, and Hf) has been measured by the nuclear γ-ray resonance of the 21.6-keV state of 151Eu. The EFG is largest in Eu2Ti2O7 and smallest in Eu2Pb2O7. This variation of EFG's can be correlated with the structural parameters of pyrochlore. Using the results measured in Eu2Z2O7 as well as those reported for Gd2Z2O7 and Dy2Ti2O7, the lattice and the second-order 4f contribution of EFG in Eu3+ have been deduced; the latter is about 40% of the former. A convergent point-charge calculation of the EFG does not satisfactorily account for the observed variation of EFG's. This is attributed to covalency and bonding effects, which are manifested by the various values of the measured isomer shift. The large isomer shifts observed in the semiconducting Eu2Z2O7(where Z=Ru, Ir, and Pt) are attributed to the open d shell of these Z4+ ions. A similar effect on the EFG has also been observed. All samples of Eu2Z2O7 studied in this work are nonmagnetic at 4.2 K.
Eu2TiO4 is (La,Ba)CuO4 structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mmm space group. Eu2+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.38–2.76 Å. Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (1.94 Å) and two longer (2.01 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted face, edge, and corner-sharing OEu4Ti2 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–55°. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to five equivalent Eu2+ and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted OEu5Ti octahedra that share corners with seventeen OEu4Ti2 octahedra, edges with eight equivalent OEu5Ti octahedra, and faces with four equivalent OEu4Ti2 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–55°.
Eu2TiO5 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. There are two inequivalent Eu3+ sites. In the first Eu3+ site, Eu3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted EuO7 hexagonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent EuO7 hexagonal pyramids, a cornercorner with one TiO5 trigonal bipyramid, edges with seven EuO7 hexagonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent TiO5 trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.37–2.45 Å. In the second Eu3+ site, Eu3+ is bonded to seven O2- atoms to form distorted EuO7 hexagonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent EuO7 hexagonal pyramids, corners with three equivalent TiO5 trigonal bipyramids, edges with five EuO7 hexagonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent TiO5 trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.32–2.50 Å. Ti4+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form distorted TiO5 trigonal bipyramids that share corners with four EuO7 hexagonal pyramids, corners with two equivalent TiO5 trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four EuO7 hexagonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.78–1.97 Å. There are five inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four Eu3+ atoms to form OEu4 tetrahedra that share corners with twelve OEu4 tetrahedra and edges with three OEu3Ti tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Eu3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form distorted OEu3Ti tetrahedra that share corners with eight OEu4 tetrahedra and edges with three OEu3Ti tetrahedra. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Eu3+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded to three Eu3+ and one Ti4+ atom to form OEu3Ti tetrahedra that share corners with eight OEu4 tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent OEu3Ti tetrahedra. In the fifth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Eu3+ and one Ti4+ atom.
EuTiO3 crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mcm space group. Eu2+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form distorted EuO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.54–3.00 Å. Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–19°. All Ti–O bond lengths are 1.97 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.


Up to now the crystallographic structure of the magnetoelectric perovskite EuTiO3 was considered to remain cubic down to low temperature. Here we present high resolution synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction data showing the existence of a structural phase transition, from cubic Pm-3m to tetragonal I4/mcm, involving TiO6 octahedra tilting, in analogy to the case of SrTiO3. The temperature evolution of the tilting angle indicates a second-order phase transition with an estimated Tc=235K. This critical temperature is well below the recent anomaly reported by specific heat measurement at TA\sim282K. By performing atomic pair distribution function analysis on diffraction data we provide evidence of a mismatch between the local (short-range) and the average crystallographic structures in this material. Below the estimated Tc, the average model symmetry is fully compatible with the local environment distortion but the former is characterized by a reduced value of the tilting angle compared to the latter. At T=240K data show the presence of local octahedra tilting identical to the low temperature one, while the average crystallographic structure remains cubic. On this basis, we propose intrinsic lattice disorder to be of fundamental importance in the understanding of EuTiO3 properties.
Eu3Ti2O7 crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mmm space group. There are two inequivalent Eu2+ sites. In the first Eu2+ site, Eu2+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.40–2.79 Å. In the second Eu2+ site, Eu2+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form EuO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, faces with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent TiO6 octahedra. There are eight shorter (2.77 Å) and four longer (2.78 Å) Eu–O bond lengths. Ti4+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with five equivalent TiO6 octahedra and faces with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0–2°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.96–2.01 Å. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to five equivalent Eu2+ and one Ti4+ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OEu5Ti octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 11°. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.
Eu‚āĄTi‚āÉO‚āĀ‚āÄ crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/mmm space group. There are two inequivalent Eu¬≤‚Āļ sites. In the first Eu¬≤‚Āļ site, Eu¬≤‚Āļ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Eu‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.41‚Äď2.80 √Ö. In the second Eu¬≤‚Āļ site, Eu¬≤‚Āļ is bonded to twelve O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form EuO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra that share corners with eight equivalent EuO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, faces with five equivalent EuO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra, and faces with eight TiO‚āÜ octahedra. There are a spread of Eu‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.74‚Äď2.81 √Ö. There are two inequivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ sites. In the first Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with five TiO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with four equivalent EuO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0‚Äď1¬į. There are a spread of Ti‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.97‚Äď1.99 √Ö. In the second Ti‚Āī‚Āļ site, Ti‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to six O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form TiO‚āÜ octahedra that share corners with six TiO‚āÜ octahedra and faces with eight equivalent EuO‚āĀ‚āā cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (1.95 √Ö) and four longer (1.97 √Ö) Ti‚ÄďO bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five equivalent Eu¬≤‚Āļ and one Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four Eu¬≤‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu¬≤‚Āļ and two Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu¬≤‚Āļ and two equivalent Ti‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
EuTiO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. Eu2+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form EuO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent TiO6 octahedra. All Eu–O bond lengths are 2.76 Å. Ti4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form TiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent TiO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Ti–O bond lengths are 1.95 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti4+ atoms.


We combine neutron powder diffraction and x-ray single-crystal magnetic diffraction at the Eu L<sub>2</sub> edge to scrutinize the magnetic motif of the Eu ions in magnetoelectric EuTiO<sub>3</sub>. Our measurements are consistent with an antiferromagnetic G-type pattern with the Eu magnetic moments ordering along the a,b -plane diagonal. Recent reports of a novel transition at 2.75 K with a flop of magnetic moments upon poling the sample in an electric field cannot be confirmed for a nonpoled sample. Our neutron diffraction data do not show any significant change of the structure below the Néel temperature. Magnetoelastic coupling, if present, is therefore expected to be negligible.
Up to now the crystallographic structure of the magnetoelectric perovskite EuTiO3 was considered to remain cubic down to low temperature. Here we present high resolution synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction data showing the existence of a structural phase transition, from cubic Pm-3m to tetragonal I4/mcm, involving TiO6 octahedra tilting, in analogy to the case of SrTiO3. The temperature evolution of the tilting angle indicates a second-order phase transition with an estimated Tc=235K. This critical temperature is well below the recent anomaly reported by specific heat measurement at TA\sim282K. By performing atomic pair distribution function analysis on diffraction data we provide evidence of a mismatch between the local (short-range) and the average crystallographic structures in this material. Below the estimated Tc, the average model symmetry is fully compatible with the local environment distortion but the former is characterized by a reduced value of the tilting angle compared to the latter. At T=240K data show the presence of local octahedra tilting identical to the low temperature one, while the average crystallographic structure remains cubic. On this basis, we propose intrinsic lattice disorder to be of fundamental importance in the understanding of EuTiO3 properties.


We have recently predicted and subsequently verified experimentally by specific heat measurements that EuTiO3 undergoes a structural phase transition at elevated temperature T S=282K. The origin of the phase transition has been attributed to the softening of a transverse acoustic mode stemming from an oxygen octahedral rotation analogous to SrTiO3. Here we demonstrate that the theoretical interpretation is correct by using high-resolution laboratory X-ray powder diffraction which evidences a cubic to tetragonal phase transition in EuTiO3. The room temperature structure could be refined in with a=3.9082(2) and at 100K the refinement in the tetragonal space group resulted in a=5.5192(2) and c=7.8164(8).
Eu2Ti2O5 crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. There are two inequivalent Eu2+ sites. In the first Eu2+ site, Eu2+ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. All Eu–O bond lengths are 2.59 Å. In the second Eu2+ site, Eu2+ is bonded to twelve O2- atoms to form EuO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, faces with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent TiO5 square pyramids. There are four shorter (2.80 Å) and eight longer (2.86 Å) Eu–O bond lengths. Ti3+ is bonded to five O2- atoms to form TiO5 square pyramids that share corners with five equivalent TiO5 square pyramids and faces with four equivalent EuO12 cuboctahedra. There is one shorter (1.97 Å) and four longer (1.98 Å) Ti–O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms.
Eu2Ti2O5 crystallizes in the orthorhombic Ima2 space group. Eu2+ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O2- atoms. There are a spread of Eu–O bond distances ranging from 2.50–3.07 Å. There are two inequivalent Ti3+ sites. In the first Ti3+ site, Ti3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing TiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.97–2.01 Å. In the second Ti3+ site, Ti3+ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O2- atoms. There are a spread of Ti–O bond distances ranging from 1.93–1.95 Å. There are three inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two Ti3+ atoms. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Eu2+ and two equivalent Ti3+ atoms.
EuTiO14 crystallizes in the cubic Fd̅3m space group. Eu is bonded to sixteen O atoms to form EuO16 tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent EuO16 tetrahedra and faces with four equivalent TiO12 cuboctahedra. There are four shorter (2.31 Å) and twelve longer (2.91 Å) Eu–O bond lengths. Ti is bonded to twelve equivalent O atoms to form TiO12 cuboctahedra that share faces with four equivalent EuO16 tetrahedra. All Ti–O bond lengths are 2.25 Å. There are two inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Eu, one Ti, and four equivalent O atoms. There are two shorter (1.85 Å) and two longer (1.99 Å) O–O bond lengths. In the second O site, O is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Eu atoms.
ErVO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Er3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Er–O bond distances ranging from 2.19–2.65 Å. V3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing VO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37–40°. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.98–2.07 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Er3+ and two equivalent V3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Er3+ and two equivalent V3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OEr2V2 trigonal pyramids.
RVO3 perovskites have been prepared in the widest range of R3+ ionic size, from LaVO3 to LuVO3. Pure polycrystalline samples have been obtained by a citrate technique leading to reactive RVO4 precursors, followed by thermal treatments in a reducing H2/N2 (15/85%) flow to stabilize V3+ cations. These oxides have been studied at room temperature by high-resolution neutron powder diffraction to follow the evolution of the crystal structures along the series. The distortion of the orthorhombic perovskite (space group Pbnm), characterized by the tilting angle of the VO6 octahedra, progressively increases from La to Lu due to simple steric factors. Additionally, all of the perovskites show a subtle distortion of the VO6 octahedra which significantly increases from La to Tb, and then slightly decreases for the last terms of the series. The stability of the crystal structure is also discussed in light of bond-valence arguments.


X-Ray Structure Analysis of Single Crystals of Ternary Rare Earth Vanadium(III) Oxides LnVO3(Ln = Gd, Dy, Er) X-ray structure investigations were performed on single crystals of LnVO3(Ln = Gd, Dy, and Er), grown by flux electrolysis. The three compounds are isotypic, they crystallize in an orthorhombic distorted perovskite structure.


Crystal structure prediction in orthorhombic ABOsub3 perovskites by multiple linear regression and artificial neural netvorks
ErVO4 is Zircon structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/amd space group. Er3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.26 Å) and four longer (2.42 Å) Er–O bond lengths. V5+ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All V–O bond lengths are 1.72 Å. O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Er3+ and one V5+ atom.


Neutron diffraction measurements were performed on polycrystalline samples of ErPOand ErVOin the temperature range between 0.4 K and 300 K. In ErPOno magnetic ordering was observed down to 0.4 K. ErVOundergoes a phase transition into an incommensurate magnetic structure at T= 3 K



The structure of NdVO4 is refined from single-crystal X-ray diffraction data. A discrepancy index of 2.8% and oxygen positional parameters u = 0.1801(6), v = 0.3284(9) are obtained. Theoretical calculations of the positional parameters for a series of vanadates are carried out by minimizing the lattice energy with respect to u and v, and assuming the experimental space group and lattice parameters. The results are in good agreement with a simple model, in which the VO4 eometry remains unchanged.
The oxygen parameters x and z of ErPO4 and ErVO4 (I4/amd) have been refined fron neutron diffraction powder data by least squares analysis. The PO and VO distances in the PO34 and VO34 tetrahedra are 1.54 and 1.72respectively. The bonding mechanism in the tetrahedra is discussed.
Improved structural parameters for the lanthanide orthovanadates (including also YVO4 and ScVO4 and new results for PrVO4, TmVO4, and the LuVO4 end members) have been determined by employing a full-profile Rietveld structure analysis of neutron powder-diffraction data. High-quality powders of the zircon-type MV O4 vanadates were prepared by a homogeneous coprecipitation in molten urea. The zircon structure has space group symmetry I 41/amd, Z = 4, with 3 atoms occupying the asymmetric unit. In all, 22 parameters were refined with final agreement values of Rp = 0.0313-0.0421, Rwp = 0.0361-0.0511, and G-of-F = 1.210-1.962. The average V-O bond length for all of the MVO4 samples is 1.709(2) Å, and the V-O distance exhibits a small systematic shortening with decreasing M atom size. The oxygen positional parameters, the cell dimensions, and the M-O distances vary systematically with the metal-ion atomic number. The anisotropic thermal motion of the oxygen atom has the largest amplitude normal to the shared polyhedral edge between the VO4 tetrahedron and MO8 bisdisphenoid. Empirical relations are given for the cell dimensions and oxygen atom position as a function of the size of the lanthanide ion which can be used to estimate structural parameters for other zircon-type lanthanide vanadate end-members and vanadate solid solutions.
Er2V2O7 crystallizes in the cubic Fd̅3m space group. Er3+ is bonded to eight O2- atoms to form distorted ErO8 hexagonal bipyramids that share edges with six equivalent ErO8 hexagonal bipyramids and edges with six equivalent VO6 octahedra. There are two shorter (2.15 Å) and six longer (2.43 Å) Er–O bond lengths. V4+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form VO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent VO6 octahedra and edges with six equivalent ErO8 hexagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 50°. All V–O bond lengths are 1.94 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to four equivalent Er3+ atoms to form corner-sharing OEr4 tetrahedra. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Er3+ and two equivalent V4+ atoms.
ErVO4 is Zircon-like structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/a space group. Er3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.31 Å) and four longer (2.34 Å) Er–O bond lengths. V5+ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All V–O bond lengths are 1.73 Å. O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Er3+ and one V5+ atom.
Single crystals of pyrochlore-type vanadates A2V2O7 where A = Er, Y, and Dy have been successfully grown under high pressure and high temperature, using a multianvil technique. The temperature gradient method was applied for the crystal growth. The crystal structure of all three compounds has been determined from the Rietveld analysis of X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) data and confirmed a cubic pyrochlore structure in space group Fd3̅ m (No. 227). The unit cell parameters were a = 9.9924(1), 10.01438(8), and 10.0372(3) Å for Er2V2O7, Y2V2O7, and Dy2V2O7, respectively. Their compositions were investigated by energy dispersive X-ray analysis. A single crystal of Dy2V2O7 was characterized by a single-crystal XRD method. 
ErVO2 crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/amd space group. Er is bonded to six equivalent O atoms to form edge-sharing ErO6 octahedra. There are four shorter (2.31 Å) and two longer (2.32 Å) Er–O bond lengths. V is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent O atoms. All V–O bond lengths are 2.20 Å. O is bonded to three equivalent Er and two equivalent V atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OEr3V2 trigonal bipyramids.
(ErV5O24)4(O2)5 crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. The structure is one-dimensional and consists of three O2 clusters and one ErV5O24 ribbon oriented in the (0, 1, 1) direction. In one of the O2 clusters, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to atoms. In two of the O2 clusters, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The O–O bond length is 1.24 Å. In the ErV5O24 ribbon, Er is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Er–O bond distances ranging from 2.07–2.53 Å. There are five inequivalent V sites. In the first V site, V is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.62–2.28 Å. In the second V site, V is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.62–2.29 Å. In the third V site, V is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.73–2.52 Å. In the fourth V site, V is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.66–2.49 Å. In the fifth V site, V is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.70–2.28 Å. There are twenty-four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one V atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two V atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two V atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three V atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three V atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to six V atoms to form distorted edge-sharing OV6 octahedra. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one V atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two V atoms. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two V atoms. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Er and one V atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a water-like geometry to two V atoms. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two V atoms. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to two V atoms. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one V and one O atom. The O–O bond length is 1.39 Å. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Er and one O atom. The O–O bond length is 1.45 Å. In the sixteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.28 Å) and one longer (1.40 Å) O–O bond length. In the seventeenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Er and one O atom. The O–O bond length is 1.33 Å. In the eighteenth O site, O is bonded in a water-like geometry to one Er and one O atom. The O–O bond length is 1.25 Å. In the nineteenth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. In the twentieth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two O atoms. The O–O bond length is 1.26 Å. In the twenty-first O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. In the twenty-second O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Er and one O atom. In the twenty-third O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two O atoms. In the twenty-fourth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom.
ErV2O2 crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/amd space group. Er is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent O atoms. Both Er–O bond lengths are 2.15 Å. V is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three equivalent O atoms. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and two longer (2.27 Å) V–O bond lengths. O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Er and three equivalent V atoms.
CeVO3 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Ce3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Ce–O bond distances ranging from 2.34–2.67 Å. V3+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing VO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 29–32°. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.99–2.05 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Ce3+ and two equivalent V3+ atoms. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Ce3+ and two equivalent V3+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OCe2V2 tetrahedra.
Polycrystalline CeVO3 has been studied by neutron powder diffraction (NPD), specific heat, and magnetization measurements. CeVO3 becomes magnetically ordered below TN≈136 K and an anomalous-diamagnetism effect is observed below Tt≈124 K under zero-field-cooling conditions. Simultaneously, a crystallographic transition is observed by NPD at Tt, from the high-temperature orthorhombic structure, space group Pnma, to a low-temperature monoclinic structure, space group P21/n. When cooling the sample across this transition the perovskite distortion evolves from the O type, with b/(c√2)>1, to the O′ type, characterized by b/(c√2)<1, involving a significant increase in the distortion of the VO6 octahedra. Neutron diffraction measurements revealed that, below TN, the magnetic ordering is characterized by the propagation vector k=0, concerning only the vanadium magnetic moments, which adopt a spin arrangement given by the basis vector (0,0,Gz). Thus, the magnetic moments are antiferromagnetically coupled in the a-c plane, and the a-c layers couple ferromagnetically along the b direction. At around 50 K there is a transition to a different magnetic spin arrangement, also characterized by k=0. A ferromagnetic component appears on the V3+ cations, which adopt the magnetic structure (Fx,0,Gz); on the other hand, the cerium magnetic moments also become ordered with a spin arrangement given by (Fz′,0,Gz′). At T=2.6 K the magnetic moments for the V3+ and Ce3+ ions are 1.72(4)μB and 0.46(3)μB, respectively.


RVO3 perovskites have been prepared in the widest range of R3+ ionic size, from LaVO3 to LuVO3. Pure polycrystalline samples have been obtained by a citrate technique leading to reactive RVO4 precursors, followed by thermal treatments in a reducing H2/N2 (15/85%) flow to stabilize V3+ cations. These oxides have been studied at room temperature by high-resolution neutron powder diffraction to follow the evolution of the crystal structures along the series. The distortion of the orthorhombic perovskite (space group Pbnm), characterized by the tilting angle of the VO6 octahedra, progressively increases from La to Lu due to simple steric factors. Additionally, all of the perovskites show a subtle distortion of the VO6 octahedra which significantly increases from La to Tb, and then slightly decreases for the last terms of the series. The stability of the crystal structure is also discussed in light of bond-valence arguments.
Orthorhombic perovskite type LnVO3 and Ln(1-x)TixVO3(Ln=Ce, Pr, and Nd) have been synthesized by the solid state method. The structures of these compounds have been unequivocally established based on high resolution powder X-ray diffraction data using Rietveld refinement methodology followed by difference Fourier analysis. It is shown that substitution of Ti occurs at the vanadium site and not at the cerium site. The compounds have been tested for photocatalytic degradation of various dyes and substituted phenols. It is observed that doping of Ti remarkably improves the photodegradation efficiency of these orthorhombic perovskites.
The crystal structure and the magnetic ordering pattern of the electrically insulating perovskite CeVO3 was investigated by high-resolution powder X-ray diffraction and single-crystal neutron diffraction. A structural phase transition from an orthorhombic to a monoclinic structure (with space groups Pbnm and P2(1)/b, respectively) was observed upon cooling below T (s) = 136 K. This transition is associated with a strong distortion of the VO6-octahedra and can be attributed to orbital ordering. A magnetic ordering transition driven by exchange interactions between vanadium moments is observed at T (N) = 124 K, and antiferromagnetic interactions between magnetic moments on vanadium and cerium ions induce a progressive magnetic polarization of the cerium sublattice at lower temperatures. The full magnetic structure is described by a superposition of the modes (C-x , F-y , -) and (F-x , C-y , -). The unit cell volume and the tilt angles of the VO6-octahedra in the CeVO3-crystal structure are anomalous compared to those of other members of the series RVO3 (R = lanthanide atom), and the ordered magnetic moments on both vanadium and cerium sublattices at low temperatures are considerably smaller than the free-ion values of V3+ and Ce3+. Possible origins of this behavior are discussed. 
CeVO4 is Zircon structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/amd space group. Ce3+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.38 Å) and four longer (2.49 Å) Ce–O bond lengths. V5+ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All V–O bond lengths are 1.77 Å. O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ce3+ and one V5+ atom.
The following is a brief summary of the results of this investigation: (1) The orthovanadates of cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium, europium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium, ytterbium, lutecium, yttrium and scandium possess the zircon structure. (2) The oxygen parameters for fourteen of these orthovanadates are x = 0.19 ± 0.01 and z = 0.35 ± 0.01. For scandium orthovanadate the parameters are x = 0.20 ± 0.01 and z = 0.32 ± 0.01. (3) The oxygen tetrahedra in scandium orthovanadate are elongated in the direction of the c-axis. In the other orthovanadates of this series the oxygen tetrahedra are almost regular.


X-ray diffraction and Raman-scattering measurements on cerium vanadate have been performed up to 12 and 16 GPa, respectively. Experiments reveal at 5.3 GPa the onset of a pressure-induced irreversible phase transition from the zircon to the monazite structure. Beyond this pressure, diffraction peaks and Raman-active modes of the monazite phase are measured. The zircon-to-monazite transition in CeVOis distinctive among the other rare-earth orthovanadates. We also observed softening of external translational T(E) and internal ν(B) bending modes. We attribute it to mechanical instabilities of zircon phase against the pressure-induced distortion. We additionally report lattice-dynamical and total-energy calculations which are in agreement with the experimental results. Finally, the effect of nonhydrostatic stresses on the structural sequence is studied and the equations of state of different phases are reported.


A second occurrence of wakefieldite-(Ce) (M.A. 87M/1299) has been recognized in the B.R.G.M., Orleans, collections labelled 'wolframite from Tifernine (Morocco)', but it is lead-free. It occurs as black to brownish black bundles of veinlets, with a perfect cleavage, in massive white quartz. Probe analyses gave a formula of (Ce0.52La0.18Nd0.15Y0.07Pr0.05Sm0.02)(V0.92As0.08)O4. It has a zircon-type structure with a 7.354, c 6.488 A, space group I41/amd; strongest XRD lines 3.67(10), 2.75(6), 4.87(4), 1.89(4) A; sp. gr. 4.76; H. 250 kg/mm2; soluble in HCl; omega (translucent pale brown) 1.97, epsilon (almost opaque hazel brown) 2.16. In polished section very similar to hubnerite; distinct pleochroism, strong anisotropy, pale yellow to bluish grey, strong red internal reflections, R 10.6 and 13.6% for 589 nm. -R.A.H.


A-site substituted cerium orthovanadates, Ce(1-x)SrxVO4, were synthesised by solid-state reactions. It was found that the solid solution limit in Ce(1-x)SrxVO4 is at x=0.175. The crystal structure was analysed by X-ray diffraction and it exhibits a tetragonal zircon structure of space group I4_1/amd (1 4 1) with a=7.3670 (3) and c=6.4894 (1) ? for Ce(0.825)Sr(0.175)VO4. The UV-vis absorption spectra indicated that the compounds have band gaps at room temperature in the range 4.5-4.6 eV. Conductivity measurements were performed for the first time up to the strontium solid solution limit in air and in dry 5% H_2/Ar with conductivity values at 600 °C ranging from 0.3 to 30 mS cm~(-1) in air to 30-45 mS cm~(-1) in reduced atmosphere. Sample Ce(0.825)Sr(0.175)VO4 is redox stable at a temperature below 600 °C although the conductivity is not high enough to be used as an electrode for solid oxide fuel cells.
The polymorphism of CeVO4 was investigated at high pressures and temperatures in a Belttype high-pressure apparatus. In addition to the normal-pressure modification CeVO4— I with zircon-type structure two high-pressure modifications have been found, viz. monazite-type CeVO4—II and scheelite-type CeVO4—III. CeVO4—II is stable between 1 bar and 30 kbar at 1300 °C. Its region of existence decreases rapidly at lower temperatures. From the observed p,T-relations for the I-II and I-III transformations a triple point CeVO4—I,II,III at about 27 kbar, 500 °C can be estimated. For kinetic reasons, however, the experimental determination of phase relations becomes difficult at temperatures below 600 °C. The crystal structures of CeVO4— I and —II have been refined from single-crystal data. Crystallographic data for the three modifications are given and discussed (CeVO4—I: I 41/amd, a = 7.383(1), c = 6.485(1), Z = 4; CeVO4—II: P21/n, a = 7.003(1), b = 7.227(1), c = 6.685(1), β = 105.13(1)°, Z = 4; CeVO4—III: I 41/α, a = 5.1645(2), c = 11.8482(7), Z = 4).
Improved structural parameters for the lanthanide orthovanadates (including also YVO4 and ScVO4 and new results for PrVO4, TmVO4, and the LuVO4 end members) have been determined by employing a full-profile Rietveld structure analysis of neutron powder-diffraction data. High-quality powders of the zircon-type MV O4 vanadates were prepared by a homogeneous coprecipitation in molten urea. The zircon structure has space group symmetry I 41/amd, Z = 4, with 3 atoms occupying the asymmetric unit. In all, 22 parameters were refined with final agreement values of Rp = 0.0313-0.0421, Rwp = 0.0361-0.0511, and G-of-F = 1.210-1.962. The average V-O bond length for all of the MVO4 samples is 1.709(2) Å, and the V-O distance exhibits a small systematic shortening with decreasing M atom size. The oxygen positional parameters, the cell dimensions, and the M-O distances vary systematically with the metal-ion atomic number. The anisotropic thermal motion of the oxygen atom has the largest amplitude normal to the shared polyhedral edge between the VO4 tetrahedron and MO8 bisdisphenoid. Empirical relations are given for the cell dimensions and oxygen atom position as a function of the size of the lanthanide ion which can be used to estimate structural parameters for other zircon-type lanthanide vanadate end-members and vanadate solid solutions.


A new approach to the synthesis of the lanthanide orthovanadates CeVO4, PrVO4, and NdVO4 is proposed. These compounds exhibit a tetragonal zircon structure, crystallizing in the space group I41/amd with a = 7.3733(4) Å, c = 6.4909(4) Å, and Z = 4. The crystal structure has been analyzed by powder X-ray diffraction and FTIR and UV−visible spectroscopies. Particle sizes were found to be in the range of 200−300 nm as seen by scanning electron microscopy, and energy-dispersive X-ray analysis indicated the formation of LnVO4. Thermal analysis of these solids indicated stability of the phase to 1000 °C. The photocatalytic activity of these compounds was investigated for the first time by the degradation of methylene blue. The degradation rates were similar for all compounds and comparable to that of commercial Degussa titania.
CeVO4 is Zircon-like structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/a space group. Ce4+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight equivalent O2- atoms. There are four shorter (2.36 Å) and four longer (2.42 Å) Ce–O bond lengths. V4+ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All V–O bond lengths are 1.81 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Ce4+ and one V4+ atom.


X-ray diffraction and Raman-scattering measurements on cerium vanadate have been performed up to 12 and 16 GPa, respectively. Experiments reveal at 5.3 GPa the onset of a pressure-induced irreversible phase transition from the zircon to the monazite structure. Beyond this pressure, diffraction peaks and Raman-active modes of the monazite phase are measured. The zircon-to-monazite transition in CeVOis distinctive among the other rare-earth orthovanadates. We also observed softening of external translational T(E) and internal ν(B) bending modes. We attribute it to mechanical instabilities of zircon phase against the pressure-induced distortion. We additionally report lattice-dynamical and total-energy calculations which are in agreement with the experimental results. Finally, the effect of nonhydrostatic stresses on the structural sequence is studied and the equations of state of different phases are reported.
CeVO4 crystallizes in the monoclinic P21/c space group. Ce3+ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O2- atoms. There are a spread of Ce–O bond distances ranging from 2.46–2.91 Å. V5+ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four O2- atoms. There are a spread of V–O bond distances ranging from 1.74–1.76 Å. There are four inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ce3+ and one V5+ atom. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three equivalent Ce3+ and one V5+ atom. In the third O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ce3+ and one V5+ atom. In the fourth O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Ce3+ and one V5+ atom.
The polymorphism of CeVO4 was investigated at high pressures and temperatures in a Belttype high-pressure apparatus. In addition to the normal-pressure modification CeVO4— I with zircon-type structure two high-pressure modifications have been found, viz. monazite-type CeVO4—II and scheelite-type CeVO4—III. CeVO4—II is stable between 1 bar and 30 kbar at 1300 °C. Its region of existence decreases rapidly at lower temperatures. From the observed p,T-relations for the I-II and I-III transformations a triple point CeVO4—I,II,III at about 27 kbar, 500 °C can be estimated. For kinetic reasons, however, the experimental determination of phase relations becomes difficult at temperatures below 600 °C. The crystal structures of CeVO4— I and —II have been refined from single-crystal data. Crystallographic data for the three modifications are given and discussed (CeVO4—I: I 41/amd, a = 7.383(1), c = 6.485(1), Z = 4; CeVO4—II: P21/n, a = 7.003(1), b = 7.227(1), c = 6.685(1), β = 105.13(1)°, Z = 4; CeVO4—III: I 41/α, a = 5.1645(2), c = 11.8482(7), Z = 4).


X-ray diffraction and Raman-scattering measurements on cerium vanadate have been performed up to 12 and 16 GPa, respectively. Experiments reveal at 5.3 GPa the onset of a pressure-induced irreversible phase transition from the zircon to the monazite structure. Beyond this pressure, diffraction peaks and Raman-active modes of the monazite phase are measured. The zircon-to-monazite transition in CeVOis distinctive among the other rare-earth orthovanadates. We also observed softening of external translational T(E) and internal ν(B) bending modes. We attribute it to mechanical instabilities of zircon phase against the pressure-induced distortion. We additionally report lattice-dynamical and total-energy calculations which are in agreement with the experimental results. Finally, the effect of nonhydrostatic stresses on the structural sequence is studied and the equations of state of different phases are reported.
CeVO‚āĄ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2‚āĀ/c space group. Ce‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Ce‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.25‚Äď2.69 √Ö. V‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing VO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of V‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.72‚Äď1.99 √Ö. There are four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two equivalent Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and one V‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two equivalent Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and one V‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and one V‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and two equivalent V‚Āī‚Āļ atoms.
CeVO‚āĄ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2‚āĀ/c space group. Ce‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms. There are a spread of Ce‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 2.23‚Äď2.42 √Ö. V‚Āī‚Āļ is bonded to five O¬≤‚ĀĽ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing VO‚āÖ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of V‚ÄďO bond distances ranging from 1.74‚Äď2.07 √Ö. There are four inequivalent O¬≤‚ĀĽ sites. In the first O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and one V‚Āī‚Āļ atom. In the second O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded to three equivalent Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and one V‚Āī‚Āļ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OCe‚āÉV tetrahedra. In the third O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and two equivalent V‚Āī‚Āļ atoms. In the fourth O¬≤‚ĀĽ site, O¬≤‚ĀĽ is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two equivalent Ce‚Āī‚Āļ and one V‚Āī‚Āļ atom.
CeVO3 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. Ce3+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form CeO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent CeO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent CeO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent VO6 octahedra. All Ce–O bond lengths are 2.77 Å. V3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form VO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent VO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent CeO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All V–O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Ce3+ and two equivalent V3+ atoms.
CeVO2 crystallizes in the tetragonal I41/amd space group. Ce2+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form edge-sharing CeO6 octahedra. There are two shorter (2.43 Å) and four longer (2.45 Å) Ce–O bond lengths. V2+ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent O2- atoms. All V–O bond lengths are 2.19 Å. O2- is bonded to three equivalent Ce2+ and two equivalent V2+ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OCe3V2 trigonal bipyramids.
NiOCeO2 is Orthorhombic Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Ce4+ is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O2- atoms. There are a spread of Ce–O bond distances ranging from 2.23–2.72 Å. Ni2+ is bonded to six O2- atoms to form corner-sharing NiO6 octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 40–42°. There are a spread of Ni–O bond distances ranging from 2.05–2.09 Å. There are two inequivalent O2- sites. In the first O2- site, O2- is bonded to two equivalent Ce4+ and two equivalent Ni2+ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OCe2Ni2 trigonal pyramids. In the second O2- site, O2- is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three equivalent Ce4+ and two equivalent Ni2+ atoms.
NiOCeO2 is (Cubic) Perovskite structured and crystallizes in the cubic Pm̅3m space group. Ce3+ is bonded to twelve equivalent O2- atoms to form CeO12 cuboctahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent CeO12 cuboctahedra, faces with six equivalent CeO12 cuboctahedra, and faces with eight equivalent NiO6 octahedra. All Ce–O bond lengths are 2.68 Å. Ni3+ is bonded to six equivalent O2- atoms to form NiO6 octahedra that share corners with six equivalent NiO6 octahedra and faces with eight equivalent CeO12 cuboctahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. All Ni–O bond lengths are 1.89 Å. O2- is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to four equivalent Ce3+ and two equivalent Ni3+ atoms.

